CHAPTER I

THE FIRST STRUGGLE

The engine-room floor-plates slanted, and light and shadow played about the throbbing machinery.
It looked as if the lamps swung in a semicircle, but they did not.
All else slanted at an ever-changing angle; the swiveled lamps were still.
Overhead the dark and bulky cylinders cut against the reflected glimmer on the skylights; below, valve-gear and connecting-rod flashed across the gloom, and the twinkling cranks spun in their shallow pit.
One saw the big columns shake and strain as the crosshead shot up and down; the thrust-blocks groaned with the back push of the propeller.
A door in the bulkhead was open, and now and then a blaze from the stokehold lighted the engine-room.
Shovels clanged and the thud of a hammer jarred upon the throb of machinery.
Men moved about like ghosts.
Their feet made no noise; for a moment one saw their sweat-streaked faces and then they vanished.
Lister sat on a tool-box, an old pipe in his mouth, and was happier than he had been for long.
For one thing, his men were getting sober and he saw they knew their job; then he was satisfied with his engines and relished the sense of control.
He was _chief_, and until the tug came back from Africa the engines were his.
In the meantime he need not move about.
It was like listening to an orchestra of which he knew all the instruments, and he heard no jarring notes.
The harmony was good and the rhythm well marked.
The clash and clang rose and fell with a measured beat; but the smooth running of his engines did not account for all Lister's satisfaction.
In a sense, Barbara had given him his job, he was her servant, doing her work, and this was much, although he scarcely durst hope for another reward.
Cartwright had not without careful thought sent Lister on board.
He knew the young fellow's staunchness as he knew Barbara's, and, because his need was great, had not hesitated to use him and the girl.
He was old and must be resigned to sit at his desk and plan, but, as a rule, his plans worked, and he had a talent for choosing his tools.
When it was possible, he used his tools carefully; he hated to overstrain fine material.
_Terrier's_ regular lurch and roll indicated that she was steaming along the coast, in some shelter from the wind that blew obliquely off the land.
By and by, however, the lurches got violent, and when Lister heard the thud of water on deck he went up, and opening the door on the lee side, looked out.
Water splashed against the ledge that protected the engine-room; the stack of coal worked and he heard big lumps fall.
Spray blew across the bulwarks and fell in heavy showers from a boat on the skids.
For a few moments this was all he could distinguish, and then he saw slopes of water slanting away from the tug's low side.
A half-moon shone for a few moments between ragged clouds and was hidden.
Lister stepped across the ledge and went aft.
_Terrier_ felt the drag of the hulk astern, and he wanted to see how she was towing.
He heard the iron ring clang on the hook, and when he stopped by the horse, the big tow-rope surged to and fro across the arch.
The hulk steered wildly, and if the sea got worse, he doubted if they could hold her.
He knew where he was, because he had steamed along the coast on board the cattle boat.
The Anglesey shore was fringed by reefs, the tide-races ran in white turmoil across the ledges.
The tide had now nearly run out, but when they turned the corner at Carmel Point they would meet the flood stream and the big combers the gale drove up channel.
Going to the pilot-house, Lister lighted his pipe.
"A fierce night!"
he remarked to Brown, who peered through the spray-swept glass.
"I reckon you'll want to slow down when we make Carmel."
The house was dark, but Lister saw the captain turn.
"I'm bothered," Brown admitted.
"We ought to push on, but while we might tow the hulk under, we can't tow her down channel.
We can't turn and run; it's blowing down the Menai Strait like a bellows spout, and there's all the Mersey sands to leeward.
We have got to face the sea and try to make Holyhead.
Will your engines shove her through?"
"They'll give you six or seven knots, head to wind.
Will your tow rope hold?"
"I doubt.
We have a steel hawser ready, but if she breaks the hemp rope she'll probably break the wire."
Lister agreed.
The thick hemp rope stretched and absorbed the strain; the wire was less elastic.
They were approaching Carmel Point, and Holyhead was not far, but they must front the gale when they got round the corner.
In the meantime, the engines were running smoothly, and Lister smoked and waited while the sea got worse.
Flashing lights ahead and the violent lurching indicated that they crept round the point.
Then _Terrier_ plunged into a white sea and deck and bulwarks vanished.
Her bows swung out of the foam and Lister ran to the door.
He felt the tug leap forward and knew the rope had gone.
He got out in front of Brown and plunged down the ladder.
Since _Terrier_ must be stopped and turned, he was needed.
Water ran from his clothes when he reached a slanted platform and seized a greasy wheel.
The telegraph gong was clanging and the beat of engines slackened as he followed the orders.
Then the spinning cranks stopped altogether and for a minute or two there was a strange quietness.
One heard the wind, and water splashed in the bilges.
Lister got the signal _Ahead slow_, and when he restarted his engines ran up the ladder.
He could trust the man he left, and wanted to see what was happening.
It was a moment or two before he could satisfy his curiosity, and then a bright beam illuminated the tug and angry water.
Brown was burning a blue-light while _Terrier_ crept up to the hulk.
He meant to pass the fresh hawser, but could not launch a boat, and Lister doubted if the men on the hulk could heave the heavy wire rope on board.
Although one must get near to throw a line, it looked as if Brown were going alongside.
Two dark figures, crouched on _Terrier's_ rail like animals ready to spring, cut against the blaze.
Brown was going alongside; anyhow, he was going near enough for the men to jump, but the thing was horribly risky.
If the rolling hulk struck the tug planks and iron plates would be beaten in; moreover the men must jump from the slanted rail, and if they jumped short, their long boots and oilskins would drag them down.
It looked as if Cartwright knew how to choose men for an awkward job, for as the tug got nearer Lister saw the men meant to go.
She swung up on the top of a white sea; the hulk, swept by spray, rolled down, with her deck close below the steamer's rail.
One felt they must shock, but they did not.
The dark figures leaped, there was a faint shout, a line whirled out from _Terrier's_ bridge and the hulk drove astern.
Then the blue light vanished and Lister plunged into the engine-room.
Somehow the thing was done.
The gong signaled _Half-speed_, the rhythmic clash of engines began, and Lister felt _Terrier_ tremble as she tightened the rope.
Brown had played his part and Lister's had begun.
He wondered whether they could keep the water out of the engine-room.
They had drifted off-shore, and now they had opened up the channel the combers leaped on board.
The seas were not regular; they ran in short, steep ridges, and gave the tug no time to lift.
While she swung her bows from the foaming turmoil the next swept her deck.
But to watch the seas and keep the hulk in line was the captain's business, and Lister was occupied by his.
Standing on a slanted platform with his hand on the throttle, he waited for the lurch that lifted the spinning screw.
When the blades left the water, the engines raced with a horrible din and he must cut off steam.
If he let the engines go, something might break when the propeller got hold again.
The work demanded a firm but delicate touch, since the pressure must change with the swiftly-changing load.
One could not argue when the bows would plunge and the stern swing clear; one must know instinctively.
The muscular effort was not hard, but Lister's face was wet with sweat, and when he was slow and the engine-room rang with the clash of machinery his heart beat.
The big columns that held the cylinders rocked; crank and connecting-rod spun too fast for him to see.
There was a confusing flash of steel and a daunting uproar.
For the most part, he was able to get control before the stern came down.
Moreover, he was not using full steam; to let her go would swamp the boat and wash the men off the laboring hulk.
Lister knew the rope held because he felt the heavy drag.
Although she rolled and plunged, there was no life in _Terrier's_ movements.
She was sluggish, embarrassed by the load she hauled.
Lister thought about the men on board the hulk.
Two, buffeted by wind and spray, must hold the wheel on the short quarter-deck that lifted them above the shelter of the bulwarks.
Forward of this, the water rolled about, washing on board and pouring out.
The men could not for a moment slack their watchfulness.
Sweating and straining at the spokes, they must hold her straight.
To let her sheer when she crossed a comber's top would break the rope.
The strain on the laboring engines indicated that the men held out and Lister fixed his thoughts on his machinery.
One could not see much, but while he turned the valve-wheel he listened.
If a bearing got hot or a brass shook loose, he would hear the jar.
An engine running as it ought to run was like a well-tuned instrument.
He heard no discord.
The heavy thud of the cross-heads, flashing between their guides, beat time to the clang of the valve-gear, a pump throbbed like a kettledrum, and something tinkled like a high-pitched triangle.
All went well, the engines were good and _Terrier_ stubbornly forged ahead.
By and by the strain was less marked.
The load was getting lighter and after a time Lister let go the wheel and wiped his wet face.
He could stand on the platform without support, the plunges were easy and regular.
Calling a man to relieve him, he went to the door.
The sea was white, but it no longer ran in crested ridges and a vague dark line crossed the foam ahead.
Sometimes part of the line vanished and reappeared like a row of dots with broad gaps between.
Lister knew it was breakwater.
On the other side anchor-lights tossed, and in the background a dull, reflected illumination indicated a town.
Then the gong rang and Lister went back to the platform.
In a few minutes he would get the signal to stop his engines.
The first struggle was over; Brown had made Holyhead.
CHAPTER II

THE WRECK

The night was calm, but now and then a faint, hot wind blew from the shadowy coast, and rippling the water, brought a strange, sour smell.
Lister did not know the smell; Brown knew and frowned, for he had been broken by the malaria that haunts West African river mouths.
Heavy dew dripped from the awnings on _Terrier's_ bridge and in places trickled through the material, since canvas burns in the African sun.
Brown searched the dark coast with his glasses, trying to find the marks he had noted on the chart.
Lister leaned against the rails and mused about the voyage.
They had ridden out a winter's gale in the Bay of Biscay and for a night had lost the hulk and the men on board.
Then they went into Vigo, where Lister's firemen wrecked a wine shop and it cost him much in bribes to save them from jail.
He had another taste of their quality at Las Palmas, where they made trouble with the port guards and Brown brawled in the cheap wine shops behind the cathedral.
In fact, it was some relief when the captain fell off the steam tram that runs between town and port, and a cut on his head stopped his adventures.
Then they steamed for fourteen-hundred miles before the Northeast Trades, with a misty blue sky overhead and long, white-topped seas rolling up astern.
The Trade breeze was cool and bracing, but they lost it near the coast, and now the air was hot and strangely heavy.
One felt languid and cheerfulness cost an effort.
The men had begun to grumble and Lister was glad the voyage was nearly over and it was time to get to work.
Lightning flickered on the sea, touching the back of the smooth swell, and then for a few moments left all very dark.
The moon was new, the sky was cloudy, and the swell ran high, for it rolled, unbroken and gathering momentum, from the Antarctic ice.
When the lightning was bright, one saw a low cloud that looked like steam, with a white streak beneath that marked the impact of the big rollers on the sandy coast.
The crash of breakers came out of the dark, like the rattle of a goods train crossing an iron bridge.
"Four fathoms at spring tides, and a shifting channel!"
Brown remarked, quoting from a pilot-book.
"The depth, however, varies with the wind, and a stranger must use caution when entering the lagoon."
He stopped, and laughed as he resumed: "If this was a sober undertaking I'd steam off and wait for daylight."
"I reckon it would be prudent," said Lister dryly.
"We have nothing to do with prudence," Brown rejoined.
"Our job's to work in a sun that knocks a white man down, and stew in the hot malaria damp the land breeze brings off at night.
Cartwright's orders are to lose no time and I want to finish before the fever finishes me.
Very well!
When the moon is new, high-water's at twelve o'clock, and along this coast sunset's about six hours later.
If we wait for noon-to-morrow, it will be four or five o'clock before we get on board the wreck--I understand the tide doesn't leave her until about four hours' ebb.
If we push across the bar to-night, we'll see her at daybreak and can make our plans for getting to work."
Lister agreed.
Expenses were heavy and it was important they should not lose a day.
Moreover, Cartwright had hinted that he expected them to run risks, and Lister had promised Barbara to help him out.
If Brown touched bottom steaming in, tug and barge would soon break up; but Lister was not going to be daunted.
"I'll go down and raise some extra steam," he said.
"You'll need full pressure to shove her through the surf."
He was occupied for some time, but when a plume of steam blew from the escape-pipe he came up to the door and looked about.
_Terrier's_ languid roll was getting sharper; mast and funnel swung into a wide sweep.
Sometimes the dark hull lurched up high above the tug's stern, and sometimes sank in a hollow.
The rollers had angry white tops, and a belt of filmy vapor that looked luminous closed the view ahead.
Lister knew the vapor was phosphorescent spray, flung up by the turmoil on the bar, through which they must go.
If the tug struck and stopped, the white seas would beat her down into the sand.
In the meantime, she was using full steam, because, since tide and surf carried her on, one must have speed to steer.
The spray cloud got thick, and wavered with luminous tremblings when the long rollers broke.
They came up, spangled with green and gold flashes, from astern, shook their fiery crests about the tug, and vanished ahead, but one heard them crash.
Lister thought the tug throbbed to the savage concussion.
He could not hear his engines; one heard nothing but the daunting uproar.
By and by he felt a shock; not a violent shock, but as if the boat had touched, and was pushing through, something soft.
She slowed and Lister saw the black hulk swing up and ride forward on a giant roller's top.
It looked as if she were coming on board the tug, and Lister jumped through and slammed the iron door.
Brown would need him now.
He heard the roar of water on deck, there was a crash of broken glass, and a shower fell on his head.
A cloud of steam and a loud hissing came from the stokehold, and he knew the sea that swept the tug had covered the gratings.
If she stuck, the next sea would swamp her and drown the fires, but she had not altogether stopped.
The propeller was beating hard and he opened the throttle wide.
He felt her move and tremble, as if she struggled in the grip of the sand, and then lift buoyantly.
The water that pressed her down had rolled off the deck and the oncoming comber had picked her up and was carrying her along.
Her progress was obvious.
One felt the headlong rush, and Lister thought about a toboggan speeding down an icy slope.
The roller would bear her on until it broke, but if she struck the sand she might not lift again.
She did not strike; there was another wild leap forward, a savage plunge, and a comber crashed astern.
It looked as if she had crossed the shoal and Lister let go the wheel and got his breath.
He had used no effort, but he gasped and his hand shook.
The gong signaled _half-speed_, and when he slowed his engines the roar of escaping steam pierced the turmoil of the surf.
This was significant, because he could not have heard the steam a few minutes earlier.
_Terrier_ rolled, but the rolling was not violent and began to get easy.
The gong signaled _stand by, stop_; he shut the valve and presently heard the anchor plunge and the rattle of running chain.
Then _Terrier_ swung languidly and all was quiet but for the monotonous rumble in the background.
Lister gave some orders and went to his room.
In the morning, he put a greasy jacket over his pajamas and went on deck.
The land breeze had dropped and it was very calm.
Vague trees loomed in the fog that hid the beach; there was a belt of dull, heaving water, and then the spray cloud closed the view.
The air was heavy, the men on deck moved slackly, and Lister's skin was wet by sweat.
He felt dull and shrank from effort, but when he saw Brown in a boat alongside he jumped on board.
The light was getting brighter and the wreck lay about a hundred yards off.
The stump of her broken funnel, a bare iron mast, a smashed deckhouse, and a strip of slanted side rose from the languid swell.
The rows of plates were red with rust and encrusted by shells.
When the smooth undulations sank, long weed swung about in the sandy water.
Lister thought the story of the wreck was, on the surface, plain.
Steaming out with a heavy load, _Arcturus_ had struck the bar.
The surf had beaten in her hatches, broken some plates, and afterwards washed her back across the sand.
Then, while the captain tried to reach the beach, she had sunk in deeper water.
The story was plausible, but, if Cartwright had found the proper clew, it did not account for all.
They rowed round _Arcturus_.
She lay with a sharp list and her other side was under water.
The tide was beginning to rise and when it crept up her slanted deck they pulled back to the tug.
"We'll moor the hulk alongside and rig the diving pumps.
I think that's all to-day," Brown remarked.
"When the sun is low I'll go to the factory up the creek and try to hire some native boys.
On this coast, a white man who does heavy work soon gets fever."
In the afternoon they took two men and rowed up a muddy creek that flowed into the lagoon, but the factory was farther than they thought and when they landed dusk was falling.
The white-washed wooden house stood near the bank, with a stockaded compound between it and the water.
It was built on piles and at the top of the outside stairs a veranda ran along the front.
The compound was tunneled by land-crabs' holes, and light mist crept about the giant cotton woods behind.
There was no movement of air, a sickly smell rose from the creek, and all was very damp.
Lister and Brown went up the stairs and were received by a white man in a big damp room.
A lamp hung from a beam and the light touched the patches of mildew on the discolored walls.
There was not much furniture; a few canvas chairs, a desk and a table.
Flies crawled about the table and hovered in a black swarm round the lamp.
The room smelt of palm oil and river mud.
The white man was young, but his face was haggard and he looked worn.
His rather long hair was wet and his duck jacket was dirty.
It was obvious that he did not bother about his clothes.
"Good of you to look me up!
I expect you know I'm Montgomery; the house is Montgomery and Raeburn," he said.
"However, to begin with, you had better have a drink.
I'll call my boy."
A negro came in and got a bottle and some glasses.
He was a strongly-built fellow with a blue stripe on his forehead, and muscular arms and chest, but his legs, which stuck out from short cotton trousers, were ridiculously thin.
He beat up some frothy liquor in a jug and when he filled the big glasses Lister felt disturbed, for he knew Brown and had noted the quantity of gin the negro used.
The captain, however, was cautious and they began to talk.
Lister asked Montgomery if he carried on the factory alone.
"I'm doing so for a time.
My clerk died two or three weeks since and I haven't got another yet."
"Fever?"
said Brown.
"Common malaria.
Perhaps this spot is worse than others, because, although we're beginning to kill mosquitos and poison the drains, we can't keep English boys.
The last two didn't hold out six months."
Lister got thoughtful.
He knew the African coast was unhealthy, but had not imagined it was as bad as this.
He said nothing and Montgomery resumed: "I have been forced to lie up and am shaky yet.
Malaria gets us all, but as a rule it gets strangers, particularly the young, soonest.
Looks as if the microbe liked fresh blood."
"If I was an African merchant, I'd let an agent run my factories," Brown remarked.
Montgomery smiled.
"Sometimes it's necessary for me to come out.
This factory is perhaps our best, and when Nevis, our agent, died, I started by the first boat.
Montgomery's is an old house, but since the big men combined and the Amalgamation built a factory on the next creek, we have had some trouble to pull along.
Our capital is small and we can't use up-to-date methods.
In fact, I imagine our situation is much like Cartwright's.
When he bought the wreck he no doubt felt some strain.
But won't you take another drink?"
Brown indicated his glass, which still held some liquor, and Lister refused politely.
He noted that Montgomery knew their object and was surprised, since he thought Cartwright had not talked much about the undertaking.
Then, although Montgomery was obviously ill, one felt he tried to paint the coast in the darkest colors.
"What do you think about our job?"
Brown asked.
"I think it a rash experiment and imagine Cartwright agrees.
All the same, the old fellow's a bold gambler and is perhaps willing to speculate on the chance of getting out of his embarrassments.
However, this is his business and you'll, no doubt, get your wages, although you won't float the wreck."
"What do you reckon the obstacles?"
"Fever," said Montgomery dryly.
"The salvage people lost some men.
Surf will wash the sand about her, if the wind comes fresh from the south-east.
Then the sharks may give you some trouble.
They're nearly as numerous as they are at Lagos Roads."
He paused and added carelessly: "I expect you know my father loaded _Arcturus_?"
"I heard something about it," Brown replied.
"All the same, Cartwright sent us to lift her and we have got to try.
Will you let me hire some of your factory boys?"
"Sorry, but they're Liberian Kroos, engaged on a twelve-months' contract to work in my compound, and I'm accountable for them to the Liberian government."
"Then what about boys from the bush?"
Montgomery smiled.
"I can't recommend the bushmen.
They're a turbulent lot, but you might send a present to the headman at the native town up river, and it's possible he'll let you go to see him.
For all that, some caution's indicated.
The fellow's a cunning old rascal."
Brown looked thoughtful, but began to talk about something else and by and by got up.
Montgomery went with him and Lister to the steps and when they reached the compound they found the sailors bemused with gin under the veranda.
Brown had some trouble to get the men on board, and when they awkwardly pulled away Lister was conscious of relief.
"I agree with the fellow.
Caution _is_ indicated," Brown observed.
CHAPTER III

A FUEL PROBLEM

A few days after his visit to the factory, Lister sat one morning under a tarpaulin they had stretched across the hulk.
The paint on the canvas smelt as if it burned, but the awning gave some shade and one could not front the sun on the open deck.
The sea breeze had not sprung up and dazzling reflections played about the oily surface of the swell.
In one place, where the shadow of the wreck fell, the water was a cool, dull green.
A row of bubbles slowly crossed the belt of shade, stopped and made a frothy patch, and then lengthened out.
A flexible pipe slipped across the edge of the open gangway, and Lister felt the line he held.
The line was slack and he knew the diver needed nothing.
Two half-naked men, their skins shining with sweat, turned the air-pumps handles, and the rattle of the cranks cut the dull rumble of the surf.
Brown, sitting on a tool-box, studied a plan of the wreck Cartwright had given him, and Lister thought it typical Cartwright had got the plan.
The old fellow was very keen.
By and by Brown looked up and indicated the panting men.
"We want colored boys for this job and must get a gang.
I expect you noted Montgomery declared his lot were Kroos.
The Kroos are hefty boys and pretty good sailors, but they come from Liberia and there are regulations about their employment.
You must engage them on a contract, hold yourself accountable for their return and so forth.
All the same my notion is, Montgomery didn't mean to help."
"Then we had better try the native headman he talked about."
Brown smiled, "I've no use for bushmen, but didn't see much use in telling Montgomery I'd been on the Coast before.
For one thing, his boys were not all Kroos.
You know the Kroo by his blue forehead-stripe, but I saw two or three with another mark.
Thought them Gold Coast Fantis, and a Fanti fisherman is useful on board ship.
In a day or two I'm going back to see."
Lister lighted his pipe and weighed the captain's remarks.
On the whole, he agreed that it did not look as if Montgomery meant to help.
The fellow was hospitable, but hospitality that implied his pressing liquor on the captain and making the sailors drunk had drawbacks.
Brown had used control, but Lister doubted if his resolution would stand much strain.
Then, although Montgomery's story about the need for his being on the spot was plausible, it was, perhaps, strange the head of a merchant house would stop for some time at a factory where his clerks died.
However, now Lister thought about it, Montgomery did not state if he had been there long.
"The fellow was generous with his liquor and his boy can mix a cocktail," he remarked.
Brown grinned.
"On the Coast, they're all generous with liquor.
Montgomery knows this; but I've a notion you are wondering whether he knows me.
I reckon not, but he knows the kind of skipper you generally meet in the palm oil trade.
Still the type's going out; now ship-owners pay higher, they get better men.
In fact, I'm something of a survival from the old school."
He picked up the plan and Lister thought about Montgomery.
The man was ill and highly-strung, but this was not strange.
The factory was rather a daunting spot; reeking with foul smells and haunted by a sense of gloom.
Lister thought one might get morbid and imaginative if one stopped there long.
Yet he rather liked Montgomery; there was something attractive about him.
Perhaps if they had met in brighter surroundings, when the other's health and mood were normal, they might have been friends.
Now, however, he doubted and saw Brown was not satisfied.
The line he held jerked and he signed to the men at the pump.
One kept the cranks turning; the other went to the top of a ladder lashed to the hulk's side.
The bubbles moved away from the wreck and broke the surface in a fixed, sparkling patch.
The diver was coming up and Lister presently helped him on board.
When they had taken off his copper helmet and unfastened his canvas he leaned against the pump and breathed hard.
"Well?"
said Brown, after waiting a minute or two for the man to get back his normal breathing.
"She lies with a sharp list; sand's high up her starboard bilge.
Engine-room doors jambed, but I found the stokehold grating and got some way down the ladder.
Sand's washed down and buried the starboard bunkers.
To clear out the stuff will be a long job."
"Packed hard?"
The diver nodded.
"Like cement!
I reckon the pump won't move it."
Lister understood the captain's frown.
Sometimes the sand that enters a sunken vessel solidifies, with the pressure of surf or tide, into a mass that one can hardly dig out.
This, however, was not all.
"Starboard bunkers buried?"
Brown resumed.
"They were pretty full.
When she left Forcados she had a list to port, and they trimmed her by using the coal on that side first.
Well, it's awkward!
I reckoned on getting the fuel!"
"There is some coal on the port side," said Lister.
"If Cartwright's plan and notes are accurate, there's not enough to see us out.
The wrecking pump will burn a lot," Brown rejoined and turned to the diver.
"Did you see any sharks?"
"One big fellow; he hung about as if he was curious and I didn't like him near my air-pipe, but he left me alone.
The pulps you meet in warm seas are worse than sharks.
When I was down at the Spanish boat, crawling through the holes in her broken hull was nervous work.
Once I saw an arm as thick as mine waving in the dark, and started for the ladder.
We blew in that piece of her bilge with dynamite before I went on board again.
However, when I've cleared up a bit, I'll take Mr. Lister down."
The diver got into the boat and rowed to the tug, but the others stopped in the shade of the awning.
They had brought a spare diving dress, and before they tried to lift the wreck Lister must find out if Cartwright's supposition was correct, because if Cartwright had found the proper clew the job would be easier.
For all that, Lister frankly shrank from the preparatory exercise.
Diving in shark-haunted water had not much charm.
In the morning they hauled the tug alongside the wreck and at low-water rigged a derrick and opened the fore hatch.
The palm kernels had rotted and a horrible pulpy mass, swollen by fermentation, rose nearly to the ledge.
It was glutinous and too thick for the pump to lift, since the water that filled the vessel drained away through the broken plates as the tide sank.
Brown, kneeling on the hatch-coaming, knitted his brows.
"The stuff's water-borne, forced up by its buoyancy," he said.
"We may find it looser as we get down.
In the meantime, suction's no use; we have got to break it out by hand.
Start your winch and we'll fill the skip."
Lister signaled a man on board the tug, the winch rattled, and a big iron bucket, hanging by a wire rope, dropped into the hold.
A gang of men climbed across the ledge and began to cut the slimy mass with spades.
The surface heaved beneath them like a treacherous bog and the smell was horrible.
Now and then a spade made an opening for the gases to escape and the nauseated men were driven back.
For all that, they filled the skip and the swinging derrick carried the load across the deck and tilted it overboard.
The heat was almost unbearable, the reflections from the oily swell and wet deck hurt one's eyes, and Lister noted that the deck did not dry until the sea breeze began to blow.
The wind brought a faint coolness and drove back the smell, but the men's efforts presently got slack.
The labor was exhausting and one must wear some clothes because the sun burned one's skin.
They held out until the rising water drove them from the hatch and when they went back to the tug Brown looked thoughtful.
"The men can't keep it up; the thing's impossible!
A week like this would knock out the lot," he said.
"We must use native boys and I'm going to get some."
In the morning Lister took his first diving lesson, and when the big copper helmet was screwed on and the air began to swell his canvas clothes, he shrank from the experiment.
The load of metal he carried was crushing, he could hardly drag his weighted boots across the deck, and at the top of the ladder he hesitated, watching the bubbles that marked the spot where the diver had vanished.
Then he remembered his promise to Barbara and cautiously went down.
The dazzling sunshine vanished, a wave of misty green closed above the helmet glass, hot compressed air blew about his head, and his ear-drums began to throb.
Then lead and copper lost their weight; he felt buoyant and clung to the steps.
At the bottom he was for a few moments afraid to let go, but an indistinct, monstrous object came out of the strange green gloom and beckoned him on.
Lister went, making an effort for balance, because he now felt ridiculously light.
Then the reflections were puzzling, for the light came and went with the rise and fall of the swell.
Yet he could see and he followed the diver until they stopped opposite the wreck's port bilge.
Her side went up like a dark wall, covered by waving weed.
Lister's head ached and his breathing was labored, but not much pressure was needed to keep out the shallow water and the diver had promised to warn him when they had stayed long enough.
He forced himself to examine the plate the other indicated.
_Arcturus_ was a butt-strapped vessel and a number of the straps had burst.
Plates were smashed and some of the holes were large, but in places the iron was drilled and in others patches had been bolted on.
The salvage company had done part of this work and he thought it possible to make the damage good.
If they could stop the remaining holes, the big pump ought to throw out the water; but Cartwright had talked about another opening and this would be awkward to reach.
Signing the diver to go on, he followed him round the vessel's stern.
The sand on the other side was high and one could climb on board, but Lister shrank from the dark alleyway that led to the engine-room.
For all that, he went in and saw the diver had opened the jambed door.
When he reached the ledge a flash from the other's electric lamp pierced the gloom and he tried to forget his throbbing head and looked about.
Sparkling bubbles from his and the diver's helmets floated straight up to the skylights, along which they glided and vanished through a hole in the glass.
The water, moving gently with the pulse of the swell, broke the beam of light and objects it touched were distorted and magnified.
The top of the big low-pressure cylinder looked gigantic, and the thick columns appeared to bend.
Long weed clung to the platforms, from which iron ladders went down, but so far as Lister could distinguish, all below was buried in sand.
He had seen enough.
To clear the engines would be a heavy task, and one must work in semi-darkness amidst a maze of ladders, gratings, and machinery.
To keep signal-line and air-pipe free from entanglement looked impossible, but perhaps when they had broken the surface the pump would lift the sand.
Anyhow, he was getting dizzy and his breath was labored.
He touched the diver and they went back along the alleyway and round the vessel's stern.
Lister was desperately anxious to reach the ladder and it cost him an effort to use control.
As he went up his dress got heavy and he was conscious of his weighted boots.
The pressure on his lungs lessened, he was dazzled by a strong light, and feeling the edge of the hulk's deck, he got his knee on her covering-board and lurched forward.
Somebody took off his helmet and lifted the weight from his chest.
He shut his eyes and for a few moments lay on the deck.
"Well?"
said Brown presently.
"You reached the engine-room?"
Lister nodded.
"She's badly sanded up.
It's plain we shan't get much coal from the starboard bunkers until we can lift her to an even keel."
"That will be long," Brown rejoined and pondered.
"We must have coal," he resumed.
"If I can't find another plan, you must take the tug to Sierra Leone and bring a load; but we'll let it go just now.
The first thing is to hire some negro laborers, and as soon as I can leave the wreck I'll try again."
CHAPTER IV

MONTGOMERY'S OFFER

High-water was near and a trail of smoke, creeping up along the coast, streaked the shining sea.
Brown watched the smoke until two masts and a funnel rose out of the vapor and began to get distinct.
Then he put down his glasses and lighted his pipe.
The steamer was making for the lagoon.
He had not long since gone to the native town up the creek and returned with a gang of laborers.
So far, the negroes had worked well, but just now he did not need them and they lay about in the shade, some wearing a short waist-cloth and some a sheet of cotton that hung from their shoulders.
The tide had covered the wreck, but the big rotary pump was running and, since the men had loosened the top of the cargo, it lifted the slimy stuff.
A plume of steam that looked faint and diaphanous in the strong light blew away from the noisy machine.
A large flexible pipe rose from the submerged hold and another ran from the pump across the hulk's deck.
From the end of the pipe a thick, brown flood poured into the water and stained the green lagoon as the flood tide carried it along.
The clash and rattle of the engine carried far, for the load was heavy and Lister was using full steam.
The boiler was large and the furnace burned more coal than he had thought.
Sometimes palm kernels that had not altogether rotted jambed the fans, and he held the valve-wheel, trying to ease the shocks, while the perspiration dripped from his blistered skin.
When Brown indicated the steamer he looked up.
"She's coming in; I think I know the hooker," the captain remarked.
"Shallow-draught, coasting tank; goes anywhere she'll float for twenty tons of freight.
The skipper, no doubt, expects Montgomery's got a few hogsheads of oil, and it's possible he'll sell us some coal.
The parcels-vanners are pretty keen to trade."
"We want coal," said Lister and turned abruptly.
The pump jarred and stopped, the swollen suction pipe shrank, and the splash of the discharge died away.
For some time Lister was occupied and when he restarted the engine and looked about again the steamer was steering for the hulk.
She was a small vessel, going light, with much of her rusty side above water.
A big surf-boat hung, ready for lowering, at her rail and a wooden awning covered her bridge-deck.
When the throb of her engines slackened two or three white men leaned over her bulwarks and looked down at the hulk with languid curiosity.
Their faces were haggard and their poses slack.
The stamp of the fever-coast was plain.
The telegraph rang, the engines stopped, and a man on the bridge shouted: "Good morning!
You have taken on an awkward job!"
His voice was hollow and strained, and by contrast Brown's sounded full and hearty.
"We're getting ahead all the same.
Where are you for?"
"_Sar_ Leone, after we call at Montgomery's."
"Then you can fill your bunkers, and our coal's getting short.
Can you sell us some?"
The other asked how much Brown wanted and how much he would pay.
Then he beckoned a man on the deck to come up, and turned to Brown again.
"We might give you two or three surf-boat loads, but I'll see you when we come back.
We must get up the creek and moor her before the tide ebbs."
He seized the telegraph handle, the propeller began to turn, and when the steamer forged ahead Brown looked thoughtful.
"Perhaps I'd better take a trip up the creek in the evening.
We want the coal and I don't altogether trust Montgomery," he said.
Lister agreed that it might be prudent for Brown to go, but he was occupied by the pump and they said no more.
To lift the cargo when the water covered the wreck's hatches and loosened the pulpy mass was easier and he must keep his engine running full speed.
When they stopped he was exhausted by the heat and the strain of watching and did not go with Brown.
The captain did not, as he had promised, come back in the morning, but after a time a smoke-trail streaked the forest and the steamer moved out on the lagoon.
Lister sent a boy for the glasses, since he expected Brown was on board, but so far as he could see, the captain was not.
The white wave at the bows indicated that the vessel was steaming fast and it did not look as if she was going to stop.
In order to reach the channel across the bar, she must pass near the hulk, and Lister waved to the captain.
"What about the coal?"
he shouted.
The other leaned out from the rails and Lister, studying him with the glasses, saw a small patch, like sticking plaster, on his forehead.
The side of his face was discolored, as if it were bruised, and frowning savagely, he shook his fist.
"You can go to _Sar_ Leone or the next hottest spot for your coal!"
he roared and began to storm.
Lister had sometimes disputed with Western railroad hands and marine firemen, but he thought the captain's remarks equaled the others' best efforts.
In fact, it was some relief when a lump of coal, thrown by a sailor on the hulk, crashed upon the wooden awning, and for a moment the savage skipper paused.
For all that, Lister stopped the sailor, who was going to throw another block.
"Hold on!
The stuff is valuable!"
he said.
The captain began again, but the steamer had forged ahead, and his voice got fainter and was presently drowned by the beat of the screw.
Lister went back to the pump.
The machine was running unevenly and sometimes the powerful engine jarred.
He meant to take it down, but so long as the pump sucked up the kernels he durst not stop.
Speed was important; they must finish the job and get away before the heat and malaria wore them out.
In the meantime, he was disturbed about Brown, who ought to have returned, and at sunset he started for the factory in the tug's second boat.
Dark came suddenly and when he landed a hot, clammy fog thickened the gloom.
Little fires the factory boys had lighted by ancient custom twinkled in the haze and a yellow beam from the veranda windows touched the towering cottonwoods, but all else was dark and the spot was somehow forbidding.
One felt the gloom was sinister.
A few miles up the creek, the naked bushmen served their savage gods with fantastic rites and the Ju-Ju men and Ghost Leopards ruled the shadowy land.
At the factory white men got sick and died.
Lister went up the steps, and entering the big room, saw Montgomery in a Madeira chair.
His face was wet by sweat, but although his thin form was covered by a blanket he shook with ague.
Brown occupied a rude couch, made from two long boxes in which flintlock guns are shipped.
He lay in an ungainly pose, his head had fallen from a cushion, and his face was dark with blood.
His eyes were shut and he breathed with a snoring noise.
"What's the matter with the captain?"
Lister asked, although he thought he knew.
"He's exhausted by his efforts and the worse for liquor," Montgomery answered with a laugh.
"On the whole, I think you had better let him sleep.
Perhaps you remarked that some of the glass is broken and two of my chairs are smashed!"
Lister had not remarked this, but he looked about and began to understand.
He had seen Brown throw a Spanish landlord out of a Grand Canary wine shop.
"Your captain arrived when the steamboat men were dining with me," Montgomery resumed.
"In this country we're a hospitable lot and it's the custom to send West African factories a supply of liquor every three months.
Mine arrived not long since, and if you open the cupboard you'll see how much is left.
But there are cigarettes in the tin box; they mildew unless they're canned.
Make yourself a cocktail.
I don't want to get up and my boy's in the compound, playing a drum to keep off the ghosts."
Lister lighted a cigarette and listened.
A monotonous, rhythmic throb stole into the room, and he felt there was something about the noise that jarred.
"I'll cut out the cocktail.
You're rather generous with your liquor," he remarked dryly.
"But how did the trouble Brown made begin?"
"By a dispute about some coal."
"Ah!"
said Lister, who looked at Montgomery hard.
He imagined the steamboat captain had meant to give them coal, since the man had agreed with Brown about the price.
In fact, it looked as if he had been willing to do so, until he arrived at the factory.
Then he refused, and Brown, no doubt, got savage.
Montgomery was not embarrassed and indicated the unconscious skipper.
"If Cartwright's not losing his keenness, it's strange he sent out a man like this, but perhaps he couldn't get a sober captain to go."
"Brown has some talents.
For example, he got the boys we wanted, although you refused to help."
"We must see if he can keep them!"
Montgomery rejoined, with a meaning smile.
"In the meantime, it's not important.
Are you making much progress at the wreck?"
Lister admitted that they were not getting on as fast as he had hoped, and when Montgomery gave him a keen glance tried to brace himself.
He felt slack and his head ached.
He had been getting slack recently, and now, when he imagined he must be alert, to think was a bother.
"You have not been long at the lagoon, but you're beginning to feel the climate," the other remarked.
"It's perhaps the unhealthiest spot on an unhealthy coast, and a white man cannot work in the African sun.
However, you know why the salvage company threw up their contract.
They lost a number of their men and if you stay until the morning you can see their graves.
The rest of the gang had had enough and were too sick to keep the pump running."
"You are not encouraging," Lister observed.
"I don't exaggerate.
I know the country and the caution one must use, but you see I'm ill."

The thing was obvious.
Montgomery's hollow face was wet by sweat, his eyes were dull, and his hands shook.
Lister saw he tried to be cool, but thought him highly strung.
"If you're wise, you'll give up your post and get away before fever knocks you out," Montgomery resumed.
"In fact, I think I can promise you another berth.
The house owns two or three factories and at one we are going to start a big oil-launch running to a native market up river.
Then we have bought new machinery for breaking palm nuts and extracting the kernels and have fixed a site for the building at a dry, sandy spot.
I don't claim the neighborhood's healthy, but it's healthier than this, and we have inquired about an engineer.
Would you like the post?"
"I think not.
I'm Cartwright's man.
I've taken his pay."
Montgomery smiled ironically.
"Let's be frank!
I expect you want to force me to make a high bid.
You don't know the African coast yet, but you're not a fool and are beginning to understand the job you have undertaken.
You can't float the wreck; the fellow Cartwright sent to help you is a drunken brute, and I have grounds for thinking Cartwright, himself, will soon go broke.
Well, we need an engineer and I'll admit we have not found good men keen about applying.
If you can run the launch and palm-nut plant, we'll give you two hundred pounds bonus for breaking your engagement, besides better wages than Cartwright pays."
Lister knitted his brows and lighted a fresh cigarette.
He was not tempted, but he wanted to think and his brain was dull.
To begin with, he wondered whether Montgomery did not think him something of a fool, because it was plain the fellow had grounds for offering a bribe.
His doing so indicated that he did not want the wreck floated.
Anyhow, Montgomery had imagined he would not hesitate to break his engagement for two hundred pounds.
He must be cautious and control his anger.
"On the whole, it wouldn't pay me to turn down Cartwright's job," he said.
"Two hundred pounds is not a very big wad, and if we can take the boat home I reckon the salvage people would give me a good post.
I must wait until I'm satisfied the thing's impossible."
"When you are satisfied I'll have no object for engaging you.
We want an engineer now," Montgomery replied.
"Well," said Lister, "I reckon that is so."
He paused, and thinking he saw where the other led, resolved to make an experiment.
"All the same, since you are willing to buy me off, it looks as if we had a fighting chance to make good.
Then, if I am forced to quit, I rather think you'd pay me something not to talk.
For example, if I put Cartwright wise--"

Montgomery gave him a scornful smile.
"You're keener than I thought, but you can't tell Cartwright much he doesn't believe he knows.
I'll risk your talking to somebody else."
"Oh, well," said Lister, "I guess we'll let it go.
In the meantime, I'll get off and take the captain along.
I allow you have fixed him pretty good but he put his mark on the steamboat man and your furniture."
He called the sailors, and finding the two who had brought Brown to the factory, carried him downstairs and put him on board the boat.
The captain snored heavily and did not awake.
When they pushed off, and with the other boat in tow drifted down the creek, Lister pondered.
He did not know if he had well played his part, but he had not wanted Montgomery to think his staunchness to his employer must be reckoned on; he would sooner the fellow thought him something of a fool.
When Montgomery offered the bribe he probably knew he was rash; his doing so indicated that he was willing to run some risk, and this implied that Cartwright's supposition about the wreck was justified.
Montgomery was obviously resolved she should not be floated and might be a troublesome antagonist.
For example, he had stopped their getting coal and Lister was persuaded he had made Brown drunk.
If the control the captain had so far used broke down, it would be awkward, since Montgomery would no doubt supply him with liquor.
It was plain the fellow meant to bother them as much as possible, but since he had not owned the wrecked steamer his object was hard to see.
In the meantime, Lister let it go and concentrated on steering the boat past the mud banks in the creek.
CHAPTER V

MONTGOMERY USES HIS POWER

Some time after Lister went to the factory he woke one night from disturbed sleep.
His small room under _Terrier's_ bridge was very hot and the door and port were open.
A faint draught blew in and the mosquito curtain moved about his bed.
The tug rolled languidly and the water splashed against her side.
Farther off the gentle swell broke with a dull murmur across the wreck.
This was all, but Lister was persuaded he had, when half awake, heard something else.
At dusk a drum had begun to beat across the lagoon and the faint monotonous noise had jarred.
It was typically African; the negroes used drums for signaling, although white men had not found out their code.
Lister had come to hate all that belonged to the fever coast.
The drum, however, was not beating now, and he rather thought he had heard the splash of a canoe paddle.
There was no obvious reason this should bother him, but he was bothered and after a few minutes got up and put on a thin jacket.
On deck it was very hot and he felt the warmth of the iron plates through his slippers.
In West Africa one puts on slippers as soon as one gets out of bed, for fear of the jigger insect that bores into one's foot.
A gentle land breeze blew across the lagoon and the air was hot and damp like steam.
Lister smelt river mud and aromatic forest.
There was no moon, but he saw the dark hull rise and fall, and the flash of phosphorescent foam where the swell washed across the deck.
In the distance, the surf rumbled and now and then there was a peal of thunder.
Lister wondered why he had left his berth.
He was tired and needed sleep, for he had been occupied all day at the pump, which was not running well.
Recently he had been conscious of a nervous strain and things that were not important annoyed him; then he often woke at night, feeling that some danger threatened.
Walking along the deck he found a white sailor sitting on the windlass drum.
The man did not move until Lister touched his arm.
"Did you hear something not very long since, Watson?"
"No, sir," said the other with a start.
"Now and then a fish splashed and she got her cable across the stem.
Links rattled.
That was all."
Lister thought the man had slept, but it was not important, since there was no obvious necessity for keeping anchor watch.
"Did you hear something, sir?"
the other inquired.
"I don't know.
I imagine I did!"
The sailor laughed, as if he understood.
"A queer country; I've been here before!
Beautiful, bits of it; shining surf, yellow sands, and palms, but it plays some funny tricks with white men.
About half of them at the factories get addled brains if they stay long.
Believe in things the bushmen believe, ghosts and magic, and such.
Perhaps it's the climate, but on this coast you get fancies you get nowhere else.
I'd sooner take look-out on the fo'cas'le in a North Sea gale than keep anchor watch in an African calm."
Lister nodded.
He thought the man felt lonely and wanted to talk and he sympathized.
There was something insidious and daunting about the African coast.
He walked round the deck and then returning to his room presently went to sleep.
At daybreak he heard angry voices and going out found Brown storming about the deck.
Two white sailors had come back in the boat from the hulk, with the news that the negroes berthed on board her had vanished in the night, except for three or four whom the sailors had brought to the tug.
When Brown got cooler he went up to the men who squatted tranquilly on the hatch.
They were big muscular fellows and wore, instead of the usual piece of cotton, ragged duck clothes.
"Where's the rest of the gang?"
Brown asked.
"No savvy, sah," said one.
"Some fella put them t'ing Ju-Ju on him and he lib for bush."
"What's a Ju-Ju?"
Lister inquired.
"Hocus-pocus, magic of a sort," the captain growled.
"When a white man knows much about Ju-Ju his proper place is an asylum."
He turned to the boys.
"How did them other fellows go?"
"No savvy, sah.
We done hear not'ing."
"I expect they were afraid to meddle," Brown remarked, and resumed: "Why did you lib for stop?"
"We Accra boy; white man's boy.
Them bushman him d--n fool too much.
Run in bush like monkey, without him clo'es."
Brown knitted his brows and then made a sign of resignation.
"I reckon it's all we'll know!
Well, the tide's falling and we must shift for some kernels before the sun is hot.
Better start your pump."
The pump was soon at work, and Lister, watching the engine, mused.
He wondered how much the Accra boys knew, or if it was possible the others had stolen away without waking them.
Watson, the look-out, had heard nothing, and Lister remembered Brown's remarks about the Ju-Ju and thought the boys did know something but were afraid to tell.
Watson had said the country was queer, and if he meant fantastic, Lister agreed.
There was something about it that re-acted strangely on one's imagination.
In the North American wilds, one was, so to speak, a materialist and conquered savage Nature by using well-known rules.
In Africa one did not know the rules and felt the power of the supernatural.
It looked as if there was a mysterious, malignant force.
But the pump was running badly and Lister saw he must not philosophize.
When the sun got hot he stopped for breakfast and afterwards he and Brown smoked for a few minutes under the awning.
"I'm bothered about the boys' going," the captain declared.
"There's not much doubt Montgomery got somebody to put Ju-Ju on them; bribed a magician to frighten them by a trick.
Since they're a superstitious lot, I reckon we can't hire another gang in this neighborhood.
However, now he's stopped our coal, you'll have to go to _Sar_ Leone, and may pick up some British Kroos about the port."
"Then I'd better go soon," said Lister.
"The braces I bolted on the pump won't hold long; she rocks and strains the shaft when she's running hard.
I must get a proper casting made at a foundry.
Besides, the engine crosshead's worn and jumps about.
I must try to find a forge and machine-shop."
"They've got something of the kind at _Sar_ Leone; I don't know about a foundry," Brown replied.
"Take Learmont to navigate, and start when you like.
We'll shift the hulk to leeward of the wreck and she ought to ride out a south-east breeze."
Lister sailed a few days afterwards, and reaching Sierra Leone found nobody could make the articles he required.
For all that, they must be got, and he resolved to push on for Grand Canary.
The distance was long, he had not men enough for an ocean voyage, and would be lucky if he got back to the lagoon in three or four weeks, but if he could not mend the pump, the salvage work must stop.
Lister knew when to run a risk was justified.
After he passed the Gambier, wind and sea were ahead, his crew was short, and he was hard pressed to keep the engine going and watch the furnaces.
He slept when he could, in snatches, with his clothes on, and now and then used an exhausted fireman's shovel On the steamy African coast the labor and watchfulness would have worn him out, but the cool Trade breeze was bracing.
Although he was thin, and got thinner, the lassitude he had felt at the lagoon vanished, and the fatigue he fought against was not the fatigue that kills.
In the meantime, _Terrier_ pushed stubbornly north across the long, foam-tipped seas that broke in clouds of spray against her thrusting bows.
She was swept by the sparkling showers, but the showers were warm, and the combers were not often steep enough to flood her deck.
For all that, their impact slowed her speed.
She must be driven through their tumbling crests, full steam was needed to overcome the shock, and the worn-out men moved down coal from the stack on deck to feed the hungry fires.
Lister's eyes ached from the glare of smoky lamps that threw puzzling lights about the machinery.
After long balancing on slanted platforms, his back and legs were sore; his brows were knit in a steady frown, and his mouth was always firm.
When the strain was over, he sometimes wondered what he thought about in the long, exhausting watches, but remembered nothing except his obstinate concentration on his task.
The strange thing was, he did not think much about Barbara, although he was vaguely conscious that, for her sake, he must hold out.
He meant to hold out.
Perhaps his talents were not numerous, but he could handle engines, and when it was necessary he could keep awake.
At length, Learmont called him one morning to the bridge, and he leaned slackly against the rails.
His eyes were dull, and for some hours he had breathed the fumes of burning tallow.
A slide had given him trouble; he could keep the metal cool.
On the bridge, however, the air was keen and sweet, and he felt the contrast.
_Terrier_ plunged and threw the spray about, but the seas were short, as if something ahead broke the wind.
By and by Learmont indicated a lofty bank of mist.
"Teneriffe!"
he said.
"I was half-asleep when I took the sun, but my reckoning was not very far out."
Lister looked up.
In the distance a sharp white cone, rising from fleecy vapor, cut the sky, and Lister, with dull satisfaction, knew the famous peak.
Nearer the tug was another bank of mist, that looked strangely solid but ragged, as if it were wrapped about something with a broken outline.
Some minutes afterwards a high, dark object like a mountain-top, loomed in the haze.
"Grand Canary!"
Learmont remarked.
"The range behind Las Palmas town.
I expect the smudge ahead is the Isleta hill."
"We've made it!"
Lister said hoarsely, and braced himself.
Now the strain was gone, he felt very slack.
The sun rose out of the water, the mist began to melt, and rolling back, uncovered a line of surf and a belt of rough hillside.
Then volcanic cliffs, a sandy isthmus, and a cluster of masts and funnels got distinct, and Lister fixed the glasses on a white stripe across a cinder hill.
His hand shook, but he steadied the glasses and saw the stripe was a row of huge letters.
"... _ary Engineering Co_ ..." he read.
His heart beat when he went below.
Luck had given him a hard job, but he had put it across.
Soon after _Terrier_ arrived he went to the engineering company's office and the manager looked at him curiously.
Then he gave Lister some wine and, after studying his drawings and patterns, said he could make the things required.
Lister drove to the town, and going to a Spanish barber's, started when he saw his reflection in a glass.
He had not shaved for long, and fresh water was scarce on board the tug.
His face was haggard, the engine grime had got into his skin, and his eyes were red.
He was forced to wait, and while the barber attended to other customers, he fell asleep in his chair.
When he left the shop he went to a hotel and slept for twelve hours.
CHAPTER VI

LISTER MEETS AN OLD ANTAGONIST

The hotel Catalina, half-way between Las Palmas harbor and the town, was not crowded, and a number of the quests had gone to a ball at the neighboring Metropole.
Barbara, going out some time after dinner, found the veranda unoccupied and sat down.
Mrs. Cartwright was getting better and did not need her, and Barbara was satisfied to be alone.
Her thoughts were disturbing, and trying to banish them for a few minutes, she looked about.
The veranda was long, and the lights from the hotel threw the shadow of the wooden pillars across the dusty grass.
Barbara's figure was outlined in a dark silhouette.
She did not wear a hat and, since the night was warm, had put nothing over her thin dinner dress.
She looked slender and very young.
A strip of parched garden, where a few dusty palms grew, ran down to the road, across which the square block of the Metropole cut the shining sea.
Steamers' lights swung gently against the dark background of the Isleta hill.
Beyond the Metropole a white belt of surf ran back to the cluster of lights at the foot of the mountain that marked Las Palmas.
One heard the languid rollers break upon the beach and the measured crash of surges on the reefs across the isthmus.
Sometimes, when the throb of the surf sank, music came from the Metropole.
A distant rattle indicated a steam-tram going to the port.
The long line across the harbor was the mole, and Barbara had thought the small steamer, lying near its end, like _Terrier_.
There was nothing in the soft blue dark behind the mole until one came to the African coast.
Then Barbara firmly turned her glance.
In a sense, she had sent Lister to Africa, but she was not going to think about him yet.
She must not think about him until she had weighed something else.
A few hours since she had got a jar.
Walking in the town she saw a man whose figure and step she thought she knew.
He was some distance off, and she entered a shop and bought a Spanish fan she did not want.
Perhaps her disturbance was ridiculous, but the man was very like Shillito, and their meeting at the busy port was not impossible.
Las Palmas was something like an important railway junction.
Numerous steamers called, and passengers from all quarters, particularly South America and the West Indies, changed boats.
Then Barbara understood that a fugitive from justice was safer in South and Central America than anywhere else.
She wondered with keen anxiety whether the man had seen her.
She knew now she had not loved Shillito.
He had cunningly worked upon her ignorance, discontent, and longing for romance.
Illumination had come on board the train, but although she had found him out and escaped, she had afterwards felt herself humiliated and set apart from happy girls who had nothing to hide.
The humiliation was not altogether earned, and the people who knew about her adventure were not numerous, but they were all the people for whom she cared.
When she thought about it, she hated Louis Shillito.
The steam-tram stopped at the Metropole and went on to the port, trailing a cloud of dust.
When the rattle it made began to die away, Barbara roused herself with a start from her moody thoughts.
A man was coming up the path, and when he reached the steps she shrank back against the wall.
The light from the hotel touched his face and she saw it was Shillito.
Anger conquered her shrinking, for Barbara had pluck and her temper was hot.
When Shillito, lifting his hat, advanced, she got up and stood by a pillar.
Her skin had gone very white, but her eyes sparkled and her hands were clenched.
Shillito bowed and smiled.
"It looks as if I was lucky!"
he remarked, and Barbara imagined his not finding Mrs. Cartwright about accounted for his satisfaction.
"I suppose you saw me in the _calle mayor_?"
she said.
He nodded.
"You went into a shop.
Your object was pretty obvious.
I allow it hurt."
Barbara gave him a scornful glance.
"The statement's ridiculous!
Do you imagine you can cheat me now, as you cheated me in Canada?"
"In one way, I did not cheat you.
When I said I loved you, I was honest."
"I doubt it!
All was dishonest from the beginning.
You taught me deceit and made me ashamed for my shabbiness.
For your sake I tricked people who loved and trusted me; but to you I was rashly sincere.
I trusted you and was willing to give up much in order to marry you."
"You mean you thought you were willing, until you knew the cost?"
Shillito rejoined.
"Then you saw you couldn't make good and resolved to turn me down."
The blood came to Barbara's skin, but she fronted him steadily.
"I had _found you out_.
Had you been something of the man I thought, I might have gone with you and helped to baffle the police; but you were not.
You were very dull and played a stupid part.
When you thought you had won and I was in your power, I knew you for a brute."
Shillito colored, but forced a smile.
"Perhaps I was dull; I was desperate.
You had kept me hanging round the summer camp when I knew the police were on my track; and I had been put wise they might hold up the train.
A man hitting the trail for liberty doesn't use the manners of a highbrow carpet-knight.
I reckoned you were human and your blood was red."
"Ah," said Barbara, "I was very human!
Although I was afraid, I felt all the passion hate can rouse.
You declared I must stay with you, because I durst not go back; I had broken rules and my fastidious relations would have no more to do with me.
Something like that!
In a sense, it wasn't true; but you said it with brutal coarseness.
When I struck you I meant to hurt; I looked for something that would hurt--"

She stopped and struggled for calm.
To indulge her anger was some relief, but she felt the man was dangerous and she must be cool.
There was not much use in leaving him and going to her mother, because he would, no doubt, follow and disturb Mrs. Cartwright.
It was unlucky her step-father had not arrived; he was coming out, but his boat was not expected for a day or two.
"Oh, well," said Shillito, "let's talk about something else.
I didn't calculate to meet you at Las Palmas, but when I saw you in the _calle_, I hoped you might, after all, be kind for old times' sake.
However, it's obvious you have no use for me, and if you are willing to make it easier, I'll pull out and leave you alone."
Barbara gave him a keen glance.
She had known he wanted something.
"How can I make it easier for you to go?"
"You don't see?
Well, I've had some adventures since you left me on board the train.
I had money, but I'd waited too long to negotiate some of the bonds and my partner robbed me.
I made San Francisco and found nothing doing there.
Went down the coast to Chile and got fixed for a time at a casino, in which I invested the most part of my wad.
One night a Chileno pulled his knife on another who cleaned him out, and when the police got busy the casino shut down.
I pushed across for Argentina, but my luck wasn't good, and I made Las Palmas not long since on board an Italian boat.
On the whole, I like the dagos, and reckoned I might try Cuba, or perhaps the Philippines--"

"A Lopez boat sails for Havana in two or three days," Barbara interrupted.
"That is so," Shillito agreed, smiling because he noted her relief.
"The trouble is, I haven't much money.
Five hundred pounds would help me along."
"You thought I would give you five hundred pounds?"
"Sure," said Shillito, coolly.
"You're rich; anyhow, Mrs. Cartwright is rich, and I reckoned you would see my staying about the town has drawbacks.
For one thing, the English tourists are a gossiping lot.
It ought to pay you and your mother to help me get off."
Barbara tried to think.
The drawbacks Shillito indicated were plain, and as long as he stayed at Las Palmas she would know no ease of mind, but she had not five hundred pounds, and Mrs. Cartwright must not be disturbed.
Moreover, one could not trust the fellow.
He might take the money and then use his power again.
He had power to humiliate her, but unless she was willing to meet all his claims, she must resist some time.
"I imagine you put your importance too high," she said.
"You can stay, if you like.
I certainly will not bribe you to go away."
He studied her for a few moments; Barbara looked resolute, but he thought her resolution forced.
"Very well!
Since I can't start for Cuba without money, I must find an occupation at Las Palmas, and I have a plan.
You see, I know some Spanish and something about running a gambling joint.
The people here are sports, and one or two are willing to put up the money to start a club that ought to attract the English tourists.
If I found the thing didn't pay before you went back, I could quit and get after you."
"I think not," said Barbara, desperately.
"If you came to England, a cablegram to the Canadian police--"

Shillito laughed.
"You wouldn't send a cablegram!
If I was caught I could tell a romantic story about the girl who helped me get off.
No; I'm not going to bother about your putting the police on my trail!"
He turned his head and Barbara clenched her hand, for a rattle of wheels in the road broke off, as if a _tartana_ had stopped at the gate.
If the passengers from the vehicle were coming to the hotel she must get rid of Shillito before they arrived.
"You waste your arguments," she declared.
"I will not give you money.
If you come back, I will tell the _mayordomo_ you are annoying me and he must not let you in."
"The plan's not very clever," Shillito rejoined.
"If I made trouble for the hotel porters, the guests would wonder, and when people have nothing to do but loaf, they like to talk.
I expect you'd find their curiosity awkward--" He paused and laughed when he resumed: "You're embarrassed now because somebody will see us!"
Barbara was embarrassed.
A man was coming up the path, and she knew her figure and Shillito's cut against the light.
When the stranger reached the veranda he would see she was disturbed; but to move back into the gloom, where Shillito would follow her, would be significant.
She thought he meant to excite the other's curiosity.
The man stopped for a moment at the bottom of the steps and Barbara turned her head, since she imagined he would think she was quarreling with her lover.
Then he ran up the steps, and when he stopped in front of Shillito her heart beat fast.
It was Lister, and she knew he had remarked her strained look, for his face was very stern.
"Hallo!"
he said.
"Are you bothering Miss Hyslop again?"
He glanced at Barbara.
"I expect the fellow is bothering you?"
For a moment Barbara hesitated, but she had borne a heavy strain and her control was going.
Besides, one could trust Lister and he knew ... She signed agreement and he touched Shillito.
"Get off the veranda!"
Shillito did not move.
His pose was tense and he looked malevolent.
"You won't help Miss Hyslop by butting in like a clumsy fool.
The thing's too delicate for you to meddle--"

"Get off the veranda!"
Lister shouted, and threw Shillito back.
He was highly strung, and worn by want of sleep and exhausting labor, but he had some notion of all Barbara had borne on Shillito's account.
Although perhaps caution and tact were indicated, he was going to use force.
When Shillito struck him he seized the fellow, and rocking in a savage grapple, they fell with a crash against the rails.
Lister felt the other's hand at his throat, and straining back, jerked his head away while he tried to lift his antagonist off the ground.
He pulled him from the rails and they reeled across the veranda and struck the wall.
A neighboring window rattled with the shock, the heavy tramp of their feet shook the boards, and Barbara knew the noise would soon bring a group of curious servants to the door; besides, all the guests had not gone to the Metropole.
Yet she could not meddle.
The men's passions were unloosed; they fought like savage animals, driven by an instinctive fury that would not vanish until one was beaten.
She looked on, trembling and helpless, while they wrestled, with swaying bodies and hands that felt for a firmer hold.
Her face was very white and she got her breath in painful gasps.
There was something horribly primitive about the struggle, but it fascinated.
In the meantime, Lister was conscious that he had been rash.
Shillito was muscular and fresh, but he was tired.
It was plain he could not keep it up for long.
Moreover, unless the fight soon ended, people would come to see what the disturbance was about.
This would be awkward for Barbara; he wanted to tell her to go away, but could not.
He was breathless and Shillito was trying to choke him.
Afterwards he knew he was lucky.
They had got near the steps and he threw Shillito against the post at the top.
The jar shook the other, his grasp got slack, and Lister saw that for a moment the advantage was his.
Using a desperate effort he pushed his antagonist back and struck him a smashing blow.
Shillito vanished and a crash in the gloom indicated that he had fallen on an aloe in a tub by the path.
Lister leaned against the rail and laughed, because he knew aloe spikes are sharp.
Then he heard steps and voices in the hotel, and turned to Barbara.
His face was cut, his hat was gone, and his white jacket was torn.
He looked strangely savage and disheveled, but Barbara went to him and her eyes shone.
Lister stopped her.
"Don't know if I've helped much, but you must get off!"
he gasped.
"People are coming.
Go in by another door!"
He turned and plunged down the stairs, and Barbara, seeing that Shillito had vanished, ran along the veranda.
A few moments afterwards she stood by the window of her room and saw a group of curious servants and one or two tourists in the path at the bottom of the steps.
It looked as if they were puzzled, and the _mayordomo_ gravely examined Lister's battered hat.
Barbara went from the window and sat down.
She was horribly overstrained and wanted to cry, but she began to laugh, and for some minutes could not stop.
She must get relief from the tension and, after all, in a sense, the thing was humorous.
CHAPTER VII

BARBARA'S REFUSAL

In the morning Barbara went to the Catalina mole.
The short lava pier was not far off, and one got the breeze, although the hotel garden was hot.
Besides, she did not want to meet people and talk about the strange disturbance on the veranda.
On the whole, she thought nobody imagined she could satisfy the general curiosity.
Finding a block of lava in the shade, she sat down and looked about.
A boat crossed the harbor mouth, swinging up on the smooth swell and vanishing when the undulations rolled by.
A tug towed a row of barges to an anchored steamer, and the rattle of winches came down the wind.
In the background, clouds of dust blew about the coaling wharfs, and a string of flags fluttered from the staff on the Isleta hill.
Barbara beckoned a port-guard and inquired what the signal meant.
The Spaniard said an African mail-boat from England was coming in, and Barbara was conscious of some relief.
Cartwright was on board and would arrive sooner than she had thought; the boat had obviously not called at Madeira, the time-bills stated.
Cartwright would know how to deal with Shillito if he bothered her again.
In the meantime she mused about Lister.
She had thrilled when he ran up the steps at the hotel, but, in a sense, his arrival just then was awkward.
She turned her head, for the sunshine on the water dazzled her eyes, and the port was not attractive.
The limekilns, coal-wharfs, and shabby lava houses had for a background volcanic rocks, bare cinder slopes and tossing dust.
Besides, she wanted to think.
She would see Lister soon; she wanted to see him, but she shrank.
For one thing, the line she ought to take was hard.
By and by she heard a rattle of oars thrown on board a boat behind the neighboring wall; somebody shouted, and Lister came up.
His white clothes were clean but crumpled, and Barbara smiled when she saw his hat was new.
Crossing the lava pavement, he stopped opposite her and she noted a piece of sticking-plaster on his cheek.
"May I join you for a few minutes?"
he asked.
"Of course," she said graciously.
Lister sat down.
The sailors had gone off, and except for an officer of the _Commandancia_, nobody was about.
"I was going to the hotel to look for you.
For one thing, I reckoned I ought to apologize.
When I came into the veranda and saw Shillito--"

"I think you stopped for a moment at the bottom of the steps!"
Barbara remarked.
He colored, but gave her a steady look.
"That is so.
I admit the thing's ridiculous; but at first I felt I'd better pull out.
Then I noted something about your pose; you looked angry."
"Ah," said Barbara.
"It was a relief to see I was angry?
You were satisfied then?"
"I was really satisfied before.
It was impossible you should engage a brute like that in friendly talk.
Anyhow, I took the wrong line and might have made things awkward.
In fact, the situation needed a lighter touch than mine.
All the same, when I saw the fellow was bullying you--"

"You butted in?"
Barbara suggested, smiling, although her heart beat.
"Like a bull moose," said Lister with a frown.
"I ought to have kept cool, used caution, and frozen him off by a few short arguments.
You can picture Cartwright's putting across the job!
After all, however, I don't know the arguments I could have used, and I remembered how the fellow had injured you--"

He saw Barbara's color rise, and stopped for a moment.
It looked as if he had not used much caution now.
"Since I thought you in Africa, I don't understand how you arrived," she began.
"The thing's not very strange," said Lister.
"I saw your name in a visitors' list and meant to ask for you in the morning.
Then I ran up against Shillito, who didn't know me, and when he got on board the steam tram, I hired a _tartana_.
Thought he might mean trouble and I'd better come along--"

"Well," he resumed, "I'm sorry I handled the job clumsily, since I might have hurt you worse; but I hated the fellow on my own account and saw red.
Perhaps it was lucky I was able to throw him down the steps, because I expect neither of us meant to quit until the other was knocked out."
He paused and added, with a laugh: "Now I'm cool, I think the chances were I got knocked out.
Last time we met he threw me off the car; I reckon my luck has turned!"
Barbara studied him and was moved by pity and some other emotions.
He was very thin and his face was pinched.
He looked as if he were exhausted by the work she had sent him to do.
Barbara admitted that she had sent him.
Before Cartwright planned the salvage undertaking she had declared he would find Lister the man for an awkward job.
"You ran some risk for my sake, and I must acknowledge a fresh debt," she said.
"I would sooner be your debtor than another's, but sometimes I'm embarrassed.
You see, I owe you so much."
"You have paid all by letting me know you," Lister declared.
She was quiet for a few moments, and then asked: "Are you making much progress at the wreck?"
"Our progress is slow, but we are getting there," Lister replied, and seeing her interest, narrated his and Brown's struggles, and his long voyage with a short crew on board the tug.
The story was moving and Barbara's eyes sparkled.
Lister had borne much and done all that flesh and blood could do.
He was the man she had thought, and she knew it was for her sake that he had labored.
"It's a splendid fight!"
she said.
"We haven't won yet," he replied, and was quiet for a few moments.
Then his look got very resolute and he went on: "All the same, if the thing is anyhow possible, I'm going to win.
You see, I've got to win!
When Cartwright engaged me I was engineer on board a cattle boat; a man of no importance, without friends or money, and with no particular chance of making good.
Now I've got my chance.
If we put across the job a big salvage company turned down, I'll make my mark.
Somebody will give me a good post; I'll have got my foot on the ladder that leads to the top."
"I wish you luck," said Barbara.
"I expect you will get near the top."
"If you are willing, you can help."
"Ah," said Barbara, with forced quietness, "I think not--"

He stopped her.
"I didn't expect to find you willing.
My business is to persuade you, and I mean to try.
Well, I wasn't boasting, and my drawbacks are plain, but if I make good in Africa, some will be cut out and you can help me remove the others.
I've long wanted you, and now my luck's turning.
I was going to Catalina to tell you so.
If Brown and I float _Arcturus_, will you marry me?"
Barbara's color came and went, but she said quietly: "When you came to the hotel in the evening you met Shillito!"
"I did," said Lister, with incautious passion.
"If I had killed the brute I'd have been justified!
However, I threw him on to the aloe tub and ran off.
The thing was grotesquely humorous.
A boy's fool trick!"
"You ran off for my sake," said Barbara.
"I liked you for it.
I like you for many things, but I will not marry you."
He saw she was resolute.
Her mouth was firm and her hand was tightly closed.
He thought he knew the grounds for her refusal, and his heart sank.
Barbara was stubborn and very proud.
Moreover, the situation was awkward, but the awkwardness must be fronted.
"Let's be frank; perhaps you owe me this," he urged.
"Since you allow you do like me, what's to stop our marrying?"
"For one thing, my adventure in Canada," she replied and turned her head.
Lister put his hand on her arm and forced her to look up.
"Now you're clean ridiculous!
Shillito cheated you; he's a plausible wastrel, but you found him out.
It doesn't count at all!
Besides, nobody but your relations know."
"You know," said Barbara, and, getting up started along the mole.
Lister tried to brace himself, for he saw she could not be moved.
Yet there was something to be said.
"You are the girl I mean to marry," he declared.
"Some day, perhaps, you'll see you're indulging a blamed extravagant illusion and I'm going to wait.
When you're logical I'll try again."
Barbara forced a smile.
"Sometimes I am logical; I feel I'm logical now.
But I have left my mother alone rather long and you must let me go."
Lister went with her to the road and got on a tram going to the town.
He was hurt and angry, but not altogether daunted.
Barbara's ridiculous pride might break and she was worth waiting for.
When he returned on board, a small African liner had anchored not far off, and while he watched the boats that swarmed about the ship, one left the others and came towards the tug.
The Spanish crew were pulling hard and a passenger occupied the stern.
Learmont, lounging near, turned his glasses on the boat.
"I'm not sorry you are boss," he said.
"The Old Man is coming!"
A few minutes afterwards Cartwright got over the tug's rail.
His face was red, and he looked very stern.
"Why have you left the wreck?"
he asked Lister.
"I came for some castings I couldn't get at Sierra Leone.
The pump and engine needed mending."
"Then where's Brown?"
"He's busy at the lagoon, sir.
There's enough to keep him occupied, unless the pump plays out before I get back."
Cartwright looked relieved, but asked meaningly: "Did you know Mrs. Cartwright and Miss Hyslop were at Las Palmas?"
"I did not know until yesterday evening, twenty-four hours after I arrived; but we'll talk about this again.
I expect you want to know how we are getting on at the wreck?"
Cartwright nodded.
"I think my curiosity is natural!
Let's get out of the sun, and if you have liquor on board, order me a drink.
When the mail-boat steamed round the mole and I saw _Terrier_, I got a nasty jolt."
Lister took him to the captain's room and gave him some sour red Canary wine.
Cartwright drained his glass and looked up with an ironical smile.
"If you use stuff like this.
Brown ought not to be tempted much!
However, you can tell me what you have done at the lagoon, and the difficulties you have met.
You needn't bother to smooth down Brown's extravagances, I knew the captain before I knew you."
Lister told his story, and when he stopped Cartwright filled his glass, raised it to his lips and put it back with a frown.
"Send somebody along the mole to Garcia's shop for two or three bottles of his Amontillado and white Muscatel.
Charge the stuff to ship's victualing.
When you got Brown out of the factory, did you think it possible he had a private stock of liquor?"
"I'm satisfied he had not.
Montgomery gave him the liquor, and I imagine meant to give him too, much."
"It looks like that," Cartwright agreed.
"If we take something I suspect for granted, Montgomery's opposition would be logical.
I imagine you know part of the cargo was worth much?
Expensive stuff in small bulk, you see!"
"I have studied the cargo-lists and plans of the holds, sir."
Cartwright nodded.
"We'll find out presently if my notion how the boat was lost is accurate," The cargo's another thing.
There may have been conspiracy between merchant and ship-owner; I don't know yet, but if it was conspiracy, this would account for much.
Some of the gum shipped was very costly, and African alluvial gold, washed by the negroes, has been found mixed with brass filings."
"Montgomery frankly stated his father loaded the vessel."
"His frankness may have been calculated," Cartwright rejoined and knitted his brows.
"Yet I'll admit the young fellow's name is good at Liverpool, and all he sells is up to sample.
His father was another sort, but he died, and the house is now well run.
However, in the meantime we'll let it go."
He looked up, for a fireman, carrying a basket, came in.
Cartwright took the basket and opened a bottle of white wine.
"Take some of this," he said.
"I understand you have seen Mrs.
Cartwright?"
"Not yet, sir," said Lister, quietly.
"I met Miss Hyslop soon before your boat arrived.
Perhaps I ought to tell you I asked her if she would marry me if we floated the wreck."
"Ah!"
said Cartwright.
"But why did you add the stipulation?"
"It ought to be obvious.
If we put the undertaking over, I expect to get a post that will enable me to support a wife, although she might be forced to go without things I'd like to give her."
"I see!"
said Cartwright, with some dryness.
"Well, I don't know if Barbara is extravagant, but she has not used much economy.
Was she willing to take the plunge?"
"She was not, sir."
"Then I suppose she stated her grounds for refusing?"
"That is so," said Lister.
"Perhaps Miss Hyslop will tell you what they are.
I will not."
Cartwright looked at him hard.
"All the same, I imagine you did not agree?"
"I did not agree.
If I make good at the wreck, I will try again."
"Barbara is pretty obstinate," Cartwright remarked with a smile, and then filled Lister's glass.
"I must go; but come to the hotel in the morning.
We must talk about the salvage plans."
He went off, but when the boat crossed the harbor he looked back at the tug with twinkling eyes.
Lister was honest and had not asked Barbara to marry him until he saw some chance of his supporting a wife.
Since Barbara was rich, the thing was amusing.
All the same, it was possible the young fellow must wait.
Barbara exaggerated and indulged her imagination, but she was firm.
CHAPTER VIII

CARTWRIGHT GETS TO WORK

The morning was hot and Barbara, sitting on the hotel veranda, struggled against a flat reaction.
The glitter of the sea hurt her eyes, and the dust that blew in clouds from the road smeared her white dress.
Her mouth dropped and her pose was languid.
To refuse Lister had cost her much, and although she had done so because she felt she ought, the sense of having carried out a duty was not remarkably soothing.
It was a relief to know she need not pretend to Cartwright, who occupied a basket-chair opposite.
One could not cheat her step-father by false cheerfulness.
"When you disappointed Lister you took the prudent line," he said.
"The young fellow has some talent, but he has not yet made his mark.
I approve your caution, and expect your mother will agree."
"I wasn't cautious; I didn't argue at all like that," Barbara declared.
"Besides, I haven't told mother.
She mustn't be disturbed."
Cartwright looked thoughtful.
To some extent he was sympathetic, and to some extent amused.
"Then I don't altogether understand why you did refuse!"
"Oh, well," said Barbara, and the blood came to her skin, "for one thing, Mr. Lister waited for some time, and then asked me to marry him, after Shillito arrived."
She paused and her look got hard when she resumed: "Perhaps he thought he ought; sometimes he's chivalrous."
Cartwright imagined Barbara was badly hurt, and this accounted for her frankness.
"Your reasoning isn't very obvious, but I think I see a light," he said.
"It's possible, however, he asked you because he wanted you, and there is an explanation for his waiting.
I understand he hesitated because he doubted if he could support a wife.
It looks as if Mr. Lister didn't know you were rich."
"He doesn't know; I think I didn't want him to know," Barbara admitted with some embarrassment.
"Shillito knew, but one learns caution," Cartwright remarked.
"Well, Shillito became somewhat of a nuisance, and I don't imagine you want him to look us up again.
I rather think I must get to work."
"I hate him!"
said Barbara, passionately.
"Until your boat was signaled I was horribly alarmed, but then the trouble went.
I felt I needn't bother after you arrived."
Her voice softened as she added: "You are a clever old dear!
One feels safe while you're about!"
"Thank you," said Cartwright.
"I am old, but I have some useful talents.
Well, is there something else about which you want to talk?"
Barbara hesitated.
There was something for which she meant to ask, although her object was not very plain.
Perhaps Shillito's demand for money had made her feel its power; moreover, she was independent and liked to control her affairs.
"My birthday was not long since, and I'm entitled to use some of the money that is mine."
"That is so," Cartwright agreed with a twinkle.
"All the same, you're not entitled to use much until you marry, and you have just sent off one lover.
Would you like me to send you out a sum?"
"I think I'd like a check book, and then I needn't bother people."
Cartwright nodded.
Barbara was not extravagant.
"Very well.
I expect we can trust you, and the money is yours.
I can probably arrange for a business house to meet your drafts.
I'll see about it when I'm in the town."
He started for Las Palmas presently, and after some inquiries stopped at a Spanish hotel, where he found Shillito.
The latter frowned when he saw Cartwright, but went with him to the courtyard and they sat down in the shade.
"Have you bought your ticket for Havana?"
Cartwright asked.
"I have not," said Shillito.
"So far I haven't decided to leave Las Palmas."
"Then I imagine you had better decide _now_.
If money is a difficulty, I might lend you enough for a second-class passage, but that is all."
Shillito smiled.
"If you want to get rid of me, you'll have to go higher.
I reckon it's worth while!"
"I think not," said Cartwright, dryly.
"In fact, since I can get rid of you for nothing, I doubt if it's worth the price of a cheap berth on board the Lopez boat.
However, I'll risk this, in order to save bothering."
"Bluff!
You can cut it out and get to business!"
"Very well.
Your call at the Catalina didn't help you much, and if you come again you will not be received by Miss Hyslop, but by me.
I have met and beaten fellows like you before.
My offer's a second-class berth.
You had better take it!"
"Not at all," said Shillito.
"Before long you'll want to raise your bid."
Cartwright got up and crossed the flags; the other frowned and hesitated, but let him go.
When he reached the street Cartwright called his _tartana_ and told the driver to take him to the British Vice-Consul's.
The Vice-Consul was a merchant who sometimes supplied the Cartwright boats with stores, and he gave his visitor a cigar.
Cartwright told him as much about Shillito as he thought useful, and the Vice-Consul weighed his remarks.
"The extradition of a criminal is a long and troublesome business," he observed.
"In the meantime the fellow must not be allowed to annoy you, and I imagine my duty is to inform the Spanish _justicia_.
Don Ramon is tactful, and I think will handle the situation discreetly.
Suppose we go to see him?"
He took Cartwright to an old Spanish house, with the royal arms above the door, and a very dignified gentleman received them politely.
He allowed the Vice-Consul to tell Cartwright's story in Castilian, and then smiled.
"Seor Graham has our thanks for the warning he has brought," he said.
"In this island we are sportsmen.
We have our cockpits and casinos, but our aim is to develop our commerce and not make the town a Monte Carlo.
Then the play at the casinos must be honest.
Our way with cardsharpers is stern."
The Vice-Consul's eyes twinkled.
He knew Don Ramon, who resumed: "Seor Cartwright's duty is to inform the British police.
No doubt he will do so, but until they apply to our _justicia_ in the proper form, I cannot put in prison a British subject for a robbery he did not commit on Spanish soil.
Perhaps, however, this is not necessary?"
"On the whole, I don't think it is necessary," Cartwright remarked.
"The fellow is a dangerous scoundrel, but I don't know that it is my duty to give you the bother extradition formalities would imply.
Still you may find him a nuisance if he stays long."
Don Ramon smiled.
"I imagine he will not stay long!
My post gives me power to deal with troublesome foreigners.
Well, I thank you, and can promise you will not be disturbed again."
He let them go, and when they went out the Vice-Consul laughed.
"You can trust Don Ramon.
For one thing, he knows I have some claim; in this country a merchant finds it pays to acknowledge fair treatment by the men who rule.
For all that, Don Ramon is just and uses prudently a power we do not give British officials.
The Spanish know the advantages of firm control, and I admit their plan works well."
Shillito did not return to the Catalina.
When he was playing cards for high stakes one evening, two _guardias civiles_ entered the gambling house and one touched Shillito's arm.
"You will come with us, seor," he said politely.
Shillito pushed back his chair and looked about.
The man carried a pistol, and the civil guards have power to shoot.
His comrade watched the door.
"What is your authority for bothering me?"
he asked.
"It is possible Don Ramon will tell you.
He is waiting," said the other.
He took Shillito to the house with the coat of arms, and Don Ramon, sending off the guards, indicated a chair.
"We have heard something about you, and do not think you ought to remain at Las Palmas," he remarked.
"In fact, since we understand you meant to go to Cuba, we expect you to start by the Lopez boat."
"I don't mean to go to Cuba," Shillito rejoined.
Don Ramon shrugged.
"Well, we do not mind if you sail for another country.
Numerous steamers touch here and the choice is yours.
So long as you leave Las Palmas--"

Shillito looked at him hard.
"I am a British subject and stay where I like!"
"You are obstinate, seor, but I think your statement's rash," Don Ramon observed.
"A British subject is governed by British laws, but we will not talk about this."
He paused and studied Shillito, who began to look disturbed.
"One would sooner be polite and take the easy line," Don Ramon resumed.
"So far this is possible, because you are not on the list sent our Government by the British police, but we have power to examine foreigners about whom we are not satisfied.
Well, I doubt if you could satisfy us that you ought to remain, and when we begin to investigate, a demand for your extradition might arrive.
If you forced us to inquire about you, a cablegram would soon reach London."
Shillito saw he was beaten and got up.
"I'll buy my ticket for Havana in the morning," he replied.
The Lopez liner was some days late, and in the meantime Lister haunted the office of the engineering company.
At length the articles he needed were ready, and one afternoon Cartwright hired a boat to take him and Barbara across the harbor.
_Terrier_ lay with full steam up at the end of the long mole, and when her winch began to rattle, Cartwright told the Spanish _peons_ to stop rowing.
The tug's mooring ropes splashed, her propeller throbbed, and she swung away from the wall.
She was rusty and dingy; the screens along her bridge were cracked and burned by the sun.
The boat at her rail was blackened by soot, and when she rolled the weed streamed down from her water-line.
She looked very small and overloaded by the stack of coal on deck.
The wash round her stern got whiter, ripples ran back from her bows, and when she steamed near Cartwright's boat, her whistle shrieked.
Cartwright stood up and waved; Learmont, on the bridge, touched his cap, but for a few moments Barbara fixed her eyes on _Terrier's_ deckhouse.
Then she blushed and her heart beat, for she saw Lister at the door of the engine-room.
He saw her and smiled.
The tug's whistle was drowned by a deeper blast.
A big liner, painted black from water-line to funnel-top, was coming out, and Cartwright's boat lay between her and the tug.
Barbara gave the great ship a careless glance and then started, for she read the name at the bow.
This was the Havana boat.
Studying the groups of passengers at the rails, she thought she saw a face she knew.
The face got distinct, and when the liner's lofty side towered above the boat, Shillito, looking down, lifted his cap and bowed with ironical politeness.
Barbara turned her head and tried for calm while she watched the tug.
Lister had not gone.
Barbara knew he would not go so long as he could see the boat, and standing up, with her hand on Cartwright's shoulder, she waved her handkerchief.
Lister's hand went to his cap, but he was getting indistinct and _Terrier_ had begun to plunge on the long swell outside the wall.
She steered for open sea, the big black liner followed the coast, and presently Cartwright signed the men to pull.
Then he looked at Barbara and smiled, for he knew she had seen Shillito.
"Things do sometimes happen like that!"
he said.
"I think the fellow has gone for good, but the other will come back."
CHAPTER IX

LISTER MAKES GOOD

_Arcturus'_ holds were empty and a long row of oil puncheons occupied the beach, but the men who had dragged the goods from the water were exhausted by heavy toil in the scorching sun, and some were sick.
The divers had bolted on plates to cover the holes in the vessel's bilge before one fell ill and his mate's nerve went.
The heat and poisonous vapors from the swamps had broken his health, and he got a bad jar one day his air-pipe entangled and the pump-gang dragged him, unconscious, to the top.
Afterwards, for the most part, Lister undertook the diving, but for long his efforts to reach the floor of the engine-room were baffled.
To crawl across slanted gratings and down weedy ladders, while air-pipe and signal-line trailed about the machinery, was horribly dangerous, but he kept it up, although he got slacker and felt his pluck was breaking.
Then one afternoon he knew he could not go down again, and he stayed under water long.
Brown, standing by the air-pumps, looked at his watch and waited anxiously.
The bubbles broke the surface above the wreck and the signal-line was slack, but Lister had been down longer than he ought.
He wars not a diver, and the others who knew their job, had come up sooner.
Then Brown had other grounds for anxiety.
If Lister were beaten, their chance of floating the wreck was small.
At length, the bubbles began to move towards the hulk, the ladder shook, and a dull, red reflection shone through the water.
Then the copper helmet broke the surface, rose a few inches, and stopped, and Brown ran to the gangway.
Lister was exhausted and his worn-out body could not meet the change of pressure.
They dragged him on board and took off his helmet and canvas dress.
For some minutes he lay like a log, and then opened his eyes and looked at Brown.
"Cartwright was on the track!"
he gasped.
"We can go ahead--"

The sun was low, but the pitch in the seams was liquid and smeared the hot planks, and Brown pulled Lister into the shade.
For a time he was quiet, but by and by he said, "When the tide falls we'll start the pump and let her go all night.
I must get up and tell Jones to clean the fire."
"I'll tell him.
You stay there until we get some food," Brown replied.
The cook served the meal on deck, but they had hardly begun when he lighted a storm-lamp.
As soon as the red sun dipped thick vapor floated off from the swamps, the water got oily black, and dark clouds rolled across the sky.
Flickering lightning illumined the tumbling surf and sandy beach, but there was no thunder and the night was calm.
The hulk and tug were moored at opposite sides of the wreck, forward of her engine room, and thick wire ropes that ran between them had been dragged back under the vessel for some distance from her bow.
The ropes, however, were not yet hauled tight.
When the cook took away the plates Brown made a rough calculation.
"We have caulked all hatches and gratings forward, and stopped the ventilators," he said.
"I reckon the water will leave the deck long enough for the pump to give her fore-end some buoyancy.
If she rises with the flood tide, well heave the cables aft, until we can get a hold that will lift her bow from the ground.
Then you can pump out the fore hold and we'll make a fresh start aft.
We'll soon know if Cartwright's notion is correct."
"We know _now_; I'll satisfy you in the morning," Lister rejoined and his confidence was not exaggerated.
A steamer's hull below her load-line is pierced in places to admit water for the condensers and ballast tanks.
Lister had found some inlets open, but now they were shut.
"I'll own old Cartwright's a great man," Brown said thoughtfully.
"When he takes on a job he studies things all round.
The salvage folks, no doubt, reckoned on the possibility that the valves were open, but they couldn't get at the controls and didn't know all Cartwright knew--" He paused and added with a laugh: "I wonder how much the other fellows got for the job!
But it's time we started."
Lister got up with an effort and went to the pump, which presently began to throb.
The mended engine ran well and the regular splash of water, flung out from the big discharge pipe, drowned the languid rumble of the surf.
The hull shook; shadowy figures crossed the beam of light from the furnace, and vanished in the dark.
Twinkling lamps threw broken reflections on the water that looked like black silk, lightning flashed in the background, and when the swell broke with phosphorescent sparkles about the wreck Lister marked the height the pale illumination crept up her plates.
She would not lift that tide, but the pump was clearing the hold, and he hoped much water was not coming in.
If the leakage was not excessive, her bow ought to rise when the next tide flowed.
For some hours he kept his watch, dragging himself wearily about the engine and pump.
He had helpers, but control was his, and to an engineer a machine is not a dead mass of metal.
Lister, so to speak, felt the pump had individuality and temperament, like a spirited horse.
Sometimes it must be humored and sometimes urged; it would run faster for a man whose touch was firm but light than for another.
Perhaps he was fanciful, and he was certainly over-strung, but he imagined the big, rattling machine knew his hand.
At length when he looked at the gauge glass he found he could not see the line that marked the water-level.
His head swam and his legs shook, and calling a fireman to keep watch, he sat down in the coal.
He wanted to get to the awning, out of the dew, but could not, and leaning against the rough blocks, he went to sleep.
In the morning, he knew the fever that bothered him now and then had returned.
For all that, he must hold out and he began his labor in the burning sun.
When the flood tide rippled about the wreck it was obvious the pump was getting the water down.
The bows lifted, and starting the winches, they hauled aft the ropes.
If they could keep it, before long they might heave her from the sand.
It was a time of stubborn effort and crushing strain.
Some of the men were sick and all had lost their vigor.
The fierce sun had not burned but bleached their skin; their blood was poisoned by the miasma the land breeze blew off at night.
For all that, Cartwright's promise was they should share his reward and somehow they held on.
At length, in the scorching heat one afternoon when the flood tide began to run, they hauled the hulk and tug abaft the wreck's engine-room and made the great ropes fast.
If Lister's calculations were accurate, the pump had thrown out enough water, and the buoyancy of the other craft would lift the wreck's stern.
If not--but he refused to think about this.
The sea breeze had dropped and the smoke of the engine went straight up.
There was not a line on the glittering lagoon.
The sea looked like melted silver; one felt it give out light and heat.
The men's eyes ached and the intolerable sun pierced their double hats and dulled their brains.
When all was ready, they waited and watched the sandy water creep up _Arcturus'_ plates until the ropes stretched and groaned and the hulk began to list.
On the wreck's other side, the tug's mast and funnel slanted.
_Arcturus_ was not yet afloat, and the big wire-ropes, running beneath her bilge, held down the helping craft.
The ends were made fast by hemp lashings and somebody had put an ax beside the post.
For all that, Lister did not think Brown would give the order to cut; he himself would not.
If they did not float Arcturus now, she must remain in the sand for good.
He would hold on until the rising tide flowed across the tug.
In the meantime, he watched the pump.
The engine carried a dangerous load and the spouting discharge pipe was swollen.
Throbbing and rattling, she fought the water that held _Arcturus_ down.
A greaser touched the crosshead-slides with a tallow swab, and a panting fireman thrust a bar through the furnace door.
Their skin was blackened by sweat and coal dust; soaked singlets, tight like gloves, clung to their lean bodies.
Nobody else, however, was actively occupied.
The negroes lay on the deck and the white men lounged in the shade of the awning.
They had done all that flesh and blood could do, in a climate that breaks the white man's strength, and now the tide ought to finish their labor.
But they did not know, and some doubted.
The ropes cracked and the hulk's list got sharp.
On one side, her deck was very near the water.
She was broad, but if _Arcturus_ did not lift, it was obvious she must soon capsize.
Lister opened the engine throttle until the valve-wheel would not turn.
The cylinders shook, a gland blew steam, and the pump clashed and rocked.
All the same, he knew himself ridiculous.
The extra water the pump lifted would not help much now.
They had a few minutes, and then, if nobody cut the ropes, the hulk would go down.
The massive oak mooring-post groaned and the deck-seams opened with the strain; the wire-ropes were rigid; one could see no hint of curve.
The water touched the hulk's deck and began to creep up.
Then it stopped, the hulk shook, and the wreck's long side slowly got upright.
"She's off!"
said Brown hoarsely.
Somebody blew the tug's whistle, and one or two shouted, but this was all.
They had won a very stubborn fight, but winning had cost them much, and Lister felt their triumph was strangely flat.
He smiled and owned he would be satisfied to lie down and sleep.
Brown gave an order; _Terrier's_ propeller splashed noisily, and _Arcturus_ began to move.
Somehow it looked impossible, but she was moving.
They took her slowly and cautiously across the lagoon, and when the tide was full put her on the sand.
There was much to do yet and Lister wondered whether he could hold out until all was done.
In the evening Montgomery came off on board a boat pulled by four sturdy Kroos.
He was very thin and haggard, but the fever had left him.
When his boat got near, Brown, frowning savagely, went to the rail.
"What d'you want?"
he asked.
"Let me come on board.
If we can't, agree, I'll go back in a few minutes," Montgomery replied, and climbing the bulwarks, went to the awning and lighted a cigarette.
"You have floated her, but the job's not finished," he said.
"I expect you mean to bring off the cargo you landed and you'll need a fresh gang of native boys.
Well, I can help."
"You imply you can bother us if we don't agree?"
Brown remarked.
"Something like that!
I can certainly make things awkward.
However, all I want is to go with you when you open the lazaret where the boxes of gold were stored."
"Ah!"
said Brown.
"I expect you see what your wanting to go indicates?
Looks as if you knew something about the wreck."
"I imagine I do know something," Montgomery admitted quietly.
"At the beginning, I reckoned you would not float her, but in order to run no risk, I meant to hinder you as much as possible.
Now I'm beaten, I'm going to be frank--"

He paused and resumed in a low voice: "When I was left control of a respected business house I was young and ambitious.
It was plain the house had weathered a bad storm, but our fortunes were mending and I thought they could be built up again.
Well, I think I was honest, and when one of _Arcturus'_ crew demanded money I got a jar.
Since my father loaded the ship, I expect you see where the fellow's threats led?"
"I see the line Cartwright might take," Brown remarked dryly.
"If the boxes don't hold gold, he could break you!
We have found out enough already to give him a strong pull on the boat's last owners.
They're in his power."
"He won't use his power.
Cartwright is not that sort!
Besides, the company is bankrupt."
"You are not bankrupt.
Do you know what sort Lister and I are?"
Montgomery smiled.
"It's not important.
If there is no gold in the boxes, I don't want to carry on the house's business.
You can do what you like--"

He stopped for a few moments and Lister began to feel some sympathy.
The man was desperate and had obviously borne much.
"My staying at the factory was a strain," Montgomery continued.
"I was ill and when at length I saw you might succeed, the suspense was horrible.
You see, I risked the honor of the house, my marriage, my fortune.
All I had and cared about!"
"Were you to be married?"
Lister asked.
Montgomery signed agreement.
"The wedding was put off.
While it looked as if my mended fortune was built on fraud and I had known, and agreed to, the trick, I could not marry a high-principled girl."
Brown knitted his brows and was quiet for some moments.
Then he said, "You are now willing to get us the boys we want and help us where you can?"
"That is so," Montgomery agreed.
"Very well!"
said Brown.
"We expect to open the lazaret at daybreak and you can come with us.
You had better send off your boat and stop on board."
CHAPTER X

BARBARA TAKES CONTROL

The sun was rising and the mist rolled back from the lagoon.
The tide was low and _Arcturus'_ rusty side rose high above the smooth green water.
Damp weed hung from the beams in her poop cabin and a dull light came down through the broken glass.
A sailor, kneeling on the slimy planks, tried to force a corroded ring-bolt from its niche; another trimmed a smoky lantern.
Lister, Brown and Montgomery waited.
In the half-light, their faces looked gray and worn.
The sun had given them a dull pallor, and on the West African coast nobody sleeps much.
After a few minutes the sailor opened the swollen trap-door and then went down, Brown carrying the lantern.
As a rule a ship's lazaret is a small, dark strong-room, used for stowing liquor and articles of value.
_Arcturus_ was wet and smelt of salt.
A row of shelves crossed the bulkhead and some water lay in the angle where the slanted floor met the side sheathing.
A thin jacket and an officer's peaked cap were in the water.
Brown indicated the objects.
"Looks as if somebody had stripped before he got to work, and then left without bothering about his clothes," he said.
"I don't know if I expected this, but we'll examine the thing later."
He lifted the lantern and the flickering beam touched five or six small, thick boxes.
"Well, there's some of the gold!"
Lister seized a box and tried to lift it up, but stopped.
"It feels like gold," he said and signed to a sailor.
"Help me get the stuff on deck, Watson."
They carried the boxes up the ladder and Brown brought the cap and jacket.
"Second-mate's clothes," he said, indicating the bands round the cuffs and cap.
The imitation gold-lace had gone green but clung to the rotten material.
"Something in the pocket," he added and taking out a small wet book put it in the sun.
"We'll look at this again, and now for the first box!
I may want you to state you saw me break the seals."
Sitting in the shade of the poop, they opened the box, which was filled with fine dull-yellow grains.
Then Lister sent a man to the boat for some things he had brought, and when the fellow came back hung a small steel cup from a spring-balance.
"The scale's pretty accurate; I use it on board," he said.
"Well, I got the specific gravity of gold, zinc and copper from my pocket-tables, and made a few experiments with some bearing metals.
They're all brasses; alloys of copper and zinc, with a little lead and tin in some.
I weighed and measured two or three small ingots and afterwards calculated what they'd weigh, if their cubic size was the capacity of the cup.
I'll give you the figures."
He did so and then filled the cup with the yellow grains and held up the balance.
Montgomery, leaning forward, looked over his shoulder.
"Weighs more than your heaviest bearing metal!
It's gold!"
he exclaimed hoarsely.
"Yes," said Lister, "it's obviously gold.
Perhaps we needn't open the other boxes.
When we get on board well weigh them against this lot.
So far as I can reckon after heaving them up the ladder, well not find much difference."
Montgomery sat down, as if he were too limp to stand.
"But these are not all the boxes that were shipped--"

Brown went for the pocket-book he had put to dry and took out some papers.
"This thing belonged to Gordon Herries, second officer."
"Mr.
Herries?"
exclaimed the sailor Watson.
"The second-mate as was drowned when the surf-boat capsized!"
"What do you know about it?"
Brown asked.
"I know something, sir," said Watson, but Montgomery stopped him and turned to the others.
"It seems the second mate tried to _save_ the stuff."
"Looks like that," Brown agreed and signed to the sailor.
"Now tell us all you do know."
"We was lying in Forcados river, shifting cargo to the Lagos boat alongside.
Barret, my townie, was on board her; he'd made a run in _Arcturus_, and told me about the wreck.
When she struck, Mr. Herries swung out number two surf-boat and Barret was her bowman.
He went to the lazaret with Herries and they got up some bags of special gum and some heavy boxes.
Barret thought they were gold, but hadn't seen them put on board.
Then a big comber hit the poop, smashed the skylights, and flooded the lazaret.
They reckoned she was going over and had some bother to get out.
Well, they got the surf-boat off her side; she was pretty full with a load of Kroo boys and three or four white men.
In the surf, the steering oar broke, she yawed across a sea, and turned out the lot.
Some held on to her, but she rolled over and Barret made for the beach.
They all landed but Mr. Herries; Barret thought the boat hit him.
Gum and boxes went down in the surf."
"Very good," said Brown.
"Now get off and send somebody to help heave the boxes on board."
Montgomery turned his head and leaned against the poop.
Lister saw he trembled as if the reaction from the strain was keen.
After a few moments he braced himself.
"It's done with!
I think all the boxes held gold, but they're gone."
Brown indicated the cloud of spray that tossed above the advancing lines of foam.
The long rollers had crashed on the bar from the beginning and would never stop.
"All the surf gets it keeps," he said.
"If there is a secret, I reckon the secret's safe!
However, we have to talk about something else.
You can get us some native boys?"
"I'll send you a fresh gang.
If my new agent arrives soon, I'll go with you as far as Sierra Leone.
Since you're short-handed, I might perhaps help, and I've had enough of the factory."
The others agreed and soon afterwards got to work.
When the negroes Montgomery sent arrived all the cargo worth salving was re-stowed, and he bought the hulk for a floating store.
Then, one night when the moon and tide were full, _Terrier_ steamed slowly across the lagoon.
Two massive ropes trailed across her stern and _Arcturus'_ high dark bow towered above her phosphorescent wake.
The land breeze blew behind her and the surf had not the fury the sea breeze gives by day, but when _Terrier_ plunged into the turmoil Brown watched the tow ropes with anxious eyes.
_Arcturus_ rolled and sheered about, putting a horrible strain on the hawsers, and sometimes for a minute or two it looked as if she went astern.
Flame blew from the tug's funnel, lighting the black trail of smoke; steam roared at her escape-pipe, and the engines throbbed hard.
The ebb tide, however, was beginning to run and helped her across the shoals.
The leadsman got deeper water, the rollers got smooth, and presently the swell was long and regular and the spray cloud melted astern.
In the morning, a faint dark line to starboard was all that indicated the African coast.
Next day Brown steered for the land and called Montgomery to the bridge.
"I reckon to make an anchorage before dark," he said.
"We'll give the boys the rest they need and send _Terrier_ to _Sar_ Leone for coal.
Learmont will land you."
"Then you're not going to take _Arcturus_ into port?"
Montgomery remarked with some surprise.
"I am not.
Cartwright expects me to save him as much as possible and there are British officers and Board of Trade rules at _Sar_ Leone.
You don't imagine they'd let me start for Las Palmas?
Surveys, reports, repairs and sending for another tug, might cost two or three thousand pounds.
Then half my crew are sick and some are helpless, though I reckon they'll pick up sooner at sea than in an African hospital."
"It's a big risk.
After all, I owe you much and know something about curing malarial fever.
Besides, I'm a yachtsman and can steer and use the lead.
If you'll take me, I'll go all the way.
However, you ought to send Lister off.
He can't hold out."
"He claims he can," Brown said dryly.
"We have argued about his going to Grand Canary by a mail-boat, but he's obstinate.
Means to finish the job; that's his sort!
Anyhow, it's possible the Trade breeze will brace him up, and if he did go, the chances of my taking _Arcturus_ to Liverpool are not good."
Montgomery stayed on board and when the tug returned with coal they hove anchor and began the long run to Las Palmas.
For a time, Lister kept the engines going and superintended the pump on board the wreck, but he could not sleep and in the morning it was hard to drag himself from his bunk and start another laborious day.
The strain was horrible and he was weakening fast, but it would be cooler soon and perhaps he might hold out until they met the invigorating Northeast breeze.
In the meantime, Cartwright went back to Liverpool, Mrs. Cartwright got better, and Barbara waited for news.
She had refused Lister, but to refuse had cost her more than she had thought.
After a time Cartwright wrote and stated that the tug and Arcturus had started home.
No fresh news arrived and Barbara tried to hide her suspense, until one morning a small African liner steamed into port.
Some passengers landed and when they lunched at the hotel one talked about his going off with the first officer to a ship that signaled for help.
"It was a moving picture," he said.
"The rusty, weed-coated steamer rolling on the blue combers, and the little, battered tug, holding her head-to-sea.
The breeze was strong and for some days they had not made three knots an hour.
Well, I know something about fever, but they were _all sick;_ the engineer delirious and very weak--"

Barbara, sitting near the passenger, made an effort for calm.
Her heart beat and her breath came fast.
Nobody remarked her abrupt movement and the other went on:

"Coal, food and fresh water were running out; their medicine chest was empty.
Everything was foul with soot, coal-dust and salt.
I expect it was long since they were able to clean decks.
The skipper was in a hammock under the bridge-awning and could not get up.
An African trader, Montgomery of a Liverpool house, seemed to have control.
His skin was yellow, like a mulatto's."
A young American doctor to whom Barbara had been talking looked up.
"Jaundice after malaria!"
he remarked.
"I don't know West Africa, but I was at Panama!
Was malaria all the rest had got?"
"It was not," the passenger replied meaningly.
"However, if you know Panama--"

"Did you try to tow the ship?"
Barbara interrupted.
"The mate thought it impossible.
She was big and foul with weed, our boat is small, and we could not delay much because of the mails.
We sent a surf-boat across with water and food, and then steamed on."
Barbara looked about the table.
Mrs. Cartwright was at the other end and Barbara thought she had not heard.
She touched the young doctor.
"Will you help me on board the African steamer?
I must see the captain."
"Why, certainly!
We'll look for a boat," the other replied and they went off.
Barbara saw the captain and when she stated that the owner of _Arcturus_ was her step-father he sent for the chief mate, who narrated his visit to the wreck.
"You took the ship's doctor," said Barbara.
"Is he now on board?"
The mate said he imagined the doctor had not landed and Barbara turned to Wheeler.
"Go and find him!
Find out all you can!"
For some time afterwards she talked to the ship's officers, and when Wheeler returned went back to her boat.
While the _peons_ rowed them to the mole she asked Wheeler for his pocket-book and wrote an address.
"Don Luis Sarmiento is the best doctor in the town and had something to do with a fever hospital in Cuba," she said.
"If you tell him I sent you, he will help.
Take all the medicine he can give you and then go to Leopard Trading Company and buy whatever you think sick men would need.
Bring me the bills."
"If I get all that would be useful, it will cost you high," said Wheeler and helped her up the steps at the mole.
"That is not important.
Get the things!"
"Very well.
But the ship is six hundred miles off.
How are you going to put the truck on board?"
"I'm going to see about that next," Barbara replied and indicated a cloud of dust rolling along the road.
"There's the steam tram.
Don't talk; hustle!"
Wheeler lifted his cap and running along the mole jumped on board the tram.
When he had gone Barbara went to the office of an important English merchant house and asked for the junior partner.
She was strangely calm, although she knew that when the strain was over she would pay.
In the meantime, she needed help and admitted it was lucky young men liked her; she had not hesitated to use her charm on the American.
The junior partner was keen to help, and going with her to a coaling office, offered to charter a powerful Spanish tug the company had recently bought.
The manager agreed and Barbara made a calculation.
"If you can get the boat ready to sail in the morning, I'll send you a check when she starts," she said.
They went out and the merchant gave Barbara an approving smile.
"I imagine they haven't at the moment much use for the tug, which accounts for their being willing to take a moderate sum.
All the same, you handled the situation like a good business man.
Had they known much about your plans before we agreed, they would have sent the tug and claimed a large reward for salvage.
In fact, it looks as if you had saved Mr. Cartwright--"

"It's possible," Barbara broke in impatiently.
"Still they don't know where _Arcturus_ is and that her crew are ill. Now, however, we must engage fresh men to relieve the others.
I don't mind if you pay them something over the usual rate."
The merchant engaged the crew of a Spanish fishing schooner that was being laid up, and Barbara returning to the hotel found Wheeler in the garden.
"I've got all the medicine and truck I reckon would be useful," he said.
"If the steamboat man didn't exaggerate, you want a doctor next."
Barbara gave him a level glance and smiled.
"If you like, you may go!
A fast tug sails in the morning."
"Why," he said, "I'd be delighted!
You can call it fixed.
I came along for a holiday, but soon found that loafing made me tired--"

"Thank you," said Barbara and was gone.
The doctor laughed and joining an English friend in the hotel ordered a drink.
"I reckon I've been rushed," he remarked.
"You folks look slow, but I allow when you do get started some of you can move.
Since lunch I've been helping an English girl fix some things and she hit a pace that left me out of breath."
"Miss Hyslop?"
said the other.
"Perhaps if she'd had a job for me I might have used an effort to get up speed.
A charming girl, and I think she's resolute."
"She's surely resolute!"
Wheeler agreed.
"Miss Hyslop sees where she wants to go and gets there by the shortest road."
When dusk fell Barbara thought all was ready and sitting down by Mrs. Cartwright narrated what she had done.
After she stopped Mrs. Cartwright put her hand gently on the girl's arm.
"It's lucky you came out with me," she said.
"I would not have known what to do, and I doubt if Mortimer--"

Barbara laughed.
"Mortimer would have calculated, weighed one thing against another, and studied his plans for a week.
Mine are rude, but in the morning they'll begin to work.
After all, in a sense, I have not done much.
I have sent others, when I want to go myself."
"It's impossible, my dear," said Mrs. Cartwright, firmly.
"Well, I expect I must be resigned.
One is forced to pay for breaking rules!
I have paid; but we'll talk about something else."
"The tug and supplies have, no doubt, cost much," Mrs. Cartwright remarked.
"You must let me give you a check."
"No," said Barbara in a resolute voice.
"I will take no money until mine's all gone.
Father's a dear, I owe him much, and now I can help I'm going to help.
I have sent a cablegram he had better come out but in the meantime he needn't be anxious because I have taken control."
Mrs. Cartwright let her go presently and Barbara went to her room.
She had borne a heavy strain, but the reaction had begun, and throwing herself on a couch she covered her face with her hands and cried.
CHAPTER XI

LISTER'S REWARD

Signal flags fluttered in the breeze at the top of the Isleta and a smoke cloud stained the blue horizon.
For a few minutes the cloud vanished, and then rolled up again, thicker than before.
Cartwright studied it carefully and gave the glasses to Barbara, who stood near him on the Catalina mole.
"Is that _one_ trail of smoke?"
he asked.
"I think I see two.
Sometimes they melt, but they're getting distinct now.
There _are_ two!"
"Ah!"
said Cartwright.
"Then it's _Arcturus_.
I expect your tug has saved the situation."
"Lister saved _Arcturus_ before I meddled," Barbara declared with a blush.
"However, I'm glad I could help.
You have often helped me."
Cartwright's eyes twinkled.
"All I gave I have got back, but I'm not persuaded you didn't mean to help another.
Well, perhaps, the other deserves your interest.
Brown's a useful man, but he has some drawbacks and I doubt if he could have carried through the undertaking."
"If you'll wait in the shade, I'll get a jacket," Barbara replied.
"There's a fresh breeze, the launch splashes, and I'm going with you to meet _Arcturus_."
When the first flag blew out from the Isleta staff, she had called Cartwright, and they had hurried to the neighboring mole.
Cartwright had arrived two days before and they had watched the signals until the longed for message came: _Steamer in tow from the South._

"I think you'll wait," said Cartwright quietly.
"You don't know much about fever and the men I sent are not altogether making a triumphant return."
The blood came to Barbara's skin.
She had meant to go and hated to be baffled, but Cartwright gave her a steady glance and she knew there was no use in arguing when he looked like that.
"Did you or your mother tell me Mrs. Seaton arrived by a recent boat?"
he resumed.
Barbara was surprised, but said Mrs. Seaton was at the Metropole.
Cartwright looked at the tugs' smoke.
"Then, I ought to have time to see her before they tow _Arcturus_ in.
Some sea is running and they can't steam fast."
He started for the Catalina and when he stopped by Mrs. Cartwright's chair his face was hot and he trembled.
Hurry and muscular effort upset him, but time was valuable.
"I have not yet asked you for money, Clara," he said.
"That is so," Mrs. Cartwright agreed.
"Sometimes I was hurt because you did not.
You ought to know all that's mine is yours."
Cartwright smiled.
"You are a good sort and I'm going to borrow now because I can pay back.
I want you to telegraph your bank to meet my check."
"I'll write you a check."
"No," said Cartwright, "I think the other plan is better.
Well, the sum is rather large--"

He stated the sum and Mrs. Cartwright said, "I'm not very curious, but why do you want the money?"
"I'm going to buy Mrs. Seaton's shares."
"Ah," said Mrs. Cartwright with a disturbed look, "she tried to force you to buy before."
Cartwright knew his placid, good-humored wife hated Mrs. Seaton.
"You're puzzled?"
he remarked.
"Well, I'd have bought the shares long since, but I wasn't rich enough and didn't think my borrowing was justified.
All the same, the block she holds gives her a dangerous power, and if I can get them I'll baffle the opposition at the company's meeting.
But I must be quick."
"If you want to baffle Ellen Seaton, you can use all the money I have got!"
Mrs. Cartwright declared.
"Tell me what I must telegraph the bank."
Cartwright did so and made for the Metropole as fast as possible, because the tugs' smoke was not far off.
When he reached the big square hotel he gave a page his card and frowned while he waited in the glass-roofed patio.
Time was valuable and he hoped Mrs. Seaton would not be long.
On the whole, he did not think he was going to be shabby, but perhaps shabbiness was justified.
Ellen had not forgotten she had thought him her lover, and although it was long since she would not forget.
She hated his wife and had tried to injure him.
Cartwright imagined she would try again, and so long as she kept her shares her antagonism was dangerous.
She entered the patio with two young tourists, whom she sent off, and beckoned Cartwright to a bench behind a palm.
The sun that pierced the glass roof was strong and he reflected with dry amusement that Ellen looked better by electric light in the evening.
Although she smiled, her glance was keen and not friendly.
"I arrived some days since and met Barbara in the street, but she has not been to see me yet," she said.
"However, now you have come I ought to be satisfied!
Since you were able to get away from the office, I expect shipping is languid."
Cartwright thought she meant to be nasty.
For one thing, Barbara had not gone to see her and perhaps had not urged her calling at the hotel.
Ellen did not like the girl, but she wanted to know people and Mrs. Cartwright had stopped at Las Palmas for some time.
As a rule, Clara's friends were good.
This, however, was not important.
He must buy Ellen's shares before _Arcturus_ arrived and the news of her salvage got about.
"Oh, well," he said, "although I think I see signs of improvement, things are not very promising yet."
"If you are not hopeful, the outlook must be black," Mrs. Seaton remarked meaningly.
"Perhaps I ought to sympathize, but the effort's too much.
My investments have all gone wrong and my luck at the Grand National was remarkably bad.
In fact, if nobody will buy my shares in your line, I may be forced to agree with the people who want to wind up the company."
Cartwright thought his luck was good.
Ellen was extravagant and a gambler.
No doubt, she needed money, but he knew she was willing to hurt him and could do so.
All the same, if she could force him to buy the shares she thought worth nothing, her greed would conquer her spitefulness.
Well, he was going to indulge her.
"If you did join my antagonists, I might pull through, but I'll admit it would be awkward," he replied.
"In order to avoid the fight, I'll buy your shares for ten shillings."
Mrs. Seaton hesitated.
She did not want to lose her power, but she wanted money.
Nominally, the shares were worth a much larger sum, but she had found out that nobody else was willing to buy the block.
For all that, Cartwright was cunning and she wondered whether he knew something she did not.
She asked for a higher price, but Cartwright refused.
He was cool and humorous, although he knew _Arcturus_ was steadily nearing the harbor.
Perhaps in a few minutes the look-out on the Isleta would read her flags.
At length he pulled out his watch.
"I have an engagement, but I rather want the shares.
My getting them would help me at the meeting," he said.
"Shall we say twelve-and-sixpence?
This is the limit."
"Very well," said Mrs. Seaton and smiled with a sense of triumph.
"It looks very greedy, but when can I have a check?
You see, I'm nearly bankrupt."
"Now," said Cartwright, and taking out his fountain pen, rang a bell.
"Send a page for some notepaper and write an undertaking to deliver me the shares."
Mrs. Seaton did so and Cartwright wrote the check.
Then she signed to one of the young men she had sent off.
"Since you are very business-like, you had better have a witness!
I'm relieved to get the check, particularly since I expected you would be forced to ask Clara for the money."
Cartwright had to smile.
The sneer was Ellen's Parthian shot.
She was retiring from the field, but he owned that she might have beaten him by a bold attack and he had been afraid.
He went to the bar and ordered a drink, and then going out saw fresh signals blow from the Isleta staff.
_Arcturus'_ hull was visible in the tugs' thick smoke; the look-out on the hill with his big telescope had read her flags and was signaling her name and number to the town.
Cartwright had won by a few minutes and was satisfied, although he had given Mrs. Seaton twelve-and-sixpence for her shares, when perhaps he need not.
This was now about their just value, and, for old time's sake, he had not meant to cheat her.
In the meantime a launch was waiting to take him on board _Arcturus_ and he hurried to the mole.
Barbara saw the launch start, with mixed emotions.
She was something of a rebel and had anybody but Cartwright ordered her to stop she would not have obeyed.
She waited in the shade, fixing her eyes on the laboring tugs.
Sometimes she felt a thrill of triumph because Lister had conquered; sometimes she was tortured by suspense.
She did not know if he stood at the levers in the engine-room, or lay, unconscious, in his bunk.
Well, she would soon know and she shrank.
She rubbed the glasses and looked again.
There were two towropes; _Terrier_ plunged across the rollers on _Arcturus'_ starboard bow, the Spanish tug to port.
It looked as if the wreck's steering-gear did not work.
Spray blew about the boats and the crested seas broke in foaming turmoil against the towed vessel's side until she drew in behind the Isleta.
A few minutes afterwards she swung round the mole and Barbara thought the picture moving.
The tugs looked very small; the half-loaded hull they towed to an anchorage floated high above her proper water-line.
Rolling on the languid swell at the harbor mouth, she looked huge.
Her rusty side was like a warehouse wall.
When she lifted her plates from the water one saw the wet weed shine; higher up it clung, parched and dry, to the red iron, although there were clean belts where the stuff was scraped away.
Barbara pictured the exhausted men scraping feebly when the sea was calm and the sun did not touch the vessel's side.
All the same, the men had won a triumph.
It looked impossible that the handful of bemused ruffians she had seen start at Liverpool could have dragged the big vessel from the bottom of the lagoon, but the thing was done.
_Arcturus_, battered and rusty, with sagging masts and broken funnel, was coming into harbor.
A big pump throbbed on board, throwing water down her side; she flew a small, bright red ensign aft and a new house-flag at the masthead.
Barbara thought the flag flaunted proudly and the thing was significant.
Cartwright had weathered the storm, but she had helped.
The tugs' engines stopped and Barbara's heart beat, for a yellow flag went up.
She hated the ominous signal, and turning the glasses, followed the doctor's launch.
The boat ran alongside _Terrier_, a man went on board, returned and climbed a ladder to _Arcturus'_ deck.
He did not come back for some time and Barbara looked for Lister, but could not see him.
Then the yellow flag was hauled down and _Arcturus_ moved slowly up the harbor.
A fleet of shore-boats followed and when the anchor dropped crowded about the ship.
Barbara braced herself and waited.
Half the voyage was over and when the engines were cleaned and mended _Arcturus_ would steam to England.
The salvors had won, but sometimes victory cost much, and Barbara knew she might have to pay.
A launch with an awning steamed to the mole and vanished behind the wall.
Barbara stopped in the shade; somehow she durst not go to the steps.
Cartwright came up, but seeing his grave look, she let him pass.
Then the American doctor reached the top and called to somebody below.
Three or four men awkwardly lifted a stretcher to the pavement, and Cartwright signed to the driver of a carriage waiting in the road.
Wheeler stopped him.
"It's not far.
Carrying will be smoother."
"Very well, I'll see all's ready," said Cartwright and got into the carriage.
Then Barbara went to the stretcher, which was covered by green canvas.
She thought she knew who lay behind the screens, and her look was strained.
"Is Mr. Lister very ill?"
she asked.
Wheeler gave her a sympathetic glance.
"He is pretty sick; he was nearly all in when I boarded the ship.
Now it's possible he'll get better."
Barbara turned her head, but after a few moments looked up.
"Thank you for going!
Where are the others?"
"We have sent some to the Spanish hospital, landed them at the coaling wharf.
They're not very sick.
The rest are on board."
"_All_ the rest?"
"Three short," said the doctor quietly.
"They have made their last voyage.
But the boys are waiting to get off with the stretcher."
Barbara let him go and followed.
He looked very tired and she did not want to talk.
She saw the stretcher carried up the hotel steps and along a passage, and then went to her room.
A Spanish doctor and nurse were waiting and she knew she would be sent away.
To feel she could not help was hard, but she tried to be resigned and stopped in the quiet room, listening for steps.
Somebody might bring a message that Lister wanted her.
The message did not come and she was conscious of some relief, although she was tormented by regretful thoughts.
Lister loved her and she had refused him, because she was proud.
Perhaps her refusal was justified, but she was honest, and admitted that she had known he would not let her go, and had afterwards wondered how she would reply when he asked her again.
Now she knew.
The strain had broken her resolution.
She had indulged her ridiculous pride and saw it might cost her much.
Her lover was very ill; Wheeler doubted if he would get better.
In the evening Montgomery joined Cartwright in a corner of the smoking-room.
"I expect Captain Brown told you about the bother I gave him," he remarked.
"That is so," said Cartwright.
"He, however, stated you gave him some help."
"All the same, at the beginning, I held up the job.
When Brown could not work, your expenses ran on and I feel I ought to pay."
"It's just.
Coming home, when my men were sick and Brown was in his bunk, you undertook the duties of doctor and navigator, and Wheeler admits your cures were good.
Since you have a counter-claim, suppose we say we're quits?"
Montgomery felt some relief.
It looked as if Cartwright did not mean to use his advantage; the old fellow was generous.
Montgomery hesitated for a moment and then resumed: "I understand you bought the wreck?"
"I used the shareholders' money; at all events, I used as much as I durst.
She's the company's ship."
"But the cargo?"
"The cargo's mine.
That is, I get an allowance, agreed upon with the underwriters for all I have salved.
I rather think the sum will be large."
"Then you're satisfied?
Although you didn't get all the gold and lost the valuable gum in the lazaret?"
Cartwright's eyes twinkled.
"I've some grounds for satisfaction, and I know when to stop!
But perhaps I'd better be as frank as is needful.
Very well!
I get salvage on some of the gold.
The rest is under the surf and nobody will open the boxes now.
The thing's done with."
Montgomery was moved, but he saw there was no more to be said and asked quietly: "Will you tell me what you think about the prospects of the line?"
"On the whole, I imagine the prospects are good.
We have got a useful boat for a very small sum, and the last report was _Oreana_ could probably be floated without much damage when the St. Lawrence ice breaks.
Well, I calculate next year's trading will earn us a small dividend, and since business is improving, we ought to prosper before very long."
"Thank you," said Montgomery.
"I know something about the line and imagine the directors may need support.
Just now I have some money that does not earn much.
Would it help if I bought a number of your shares?"
"I think not," said Cartwright.
"The plan has drawbacks.
People are sometimes uncharitable and I have antagonists who might hint at a bribe.
Besides, I don't need support.
My luck has turned and I rather think I can break the opposition."
He smiled and getting up, put his hand on Montgomery's arm.
"All the same, when I send a boat to Africa you can load her up.
Now I'm going to find the nurse and ask about Lister."
Lister was delirious, and for two or three days the doctors doubted his recovery.
Then, one morning, they said his temperature had fallen and there was hope.
Next morning they admitted that he was slowly making progress.
Barbara did not leave the hotel, lest she miss the latest news from the sick-room.
She was not allowed to go in, and when evening came she knew she could not sleep.
She had not slept much since they carried Lister up the steps.
When all was quiet and the guests had gone to bed she went to the veranda and leaned against the rails.
She was highly strung and rebellious.
Lister had sent her a message, but she was not allowed to see him yet.
She wanted to see him and was persuaded that for him to see her would not hurt.
She knew he wanted her.
The moon was bright, but the shadow of the hotel stretched across the garden.
Somebody was moving about in the gloom and Barbara started when she saw it was the nurse.
The tired woman had gone out to rest for a few minutes in the cool night air and Barbara saw her opportunity.
Stealing across the veranda, she went along a passage and up some stairs.
The landing at the top was dark, but she knew Lister's door, and turning the handle quietly, looked in.
Bright moonlight shone through the open window and a curtain moved in the gentle breeze.
Mosquito gauze wavered about the bed where a quiet figure lay.
Barbara stole across the floor and pulled back the guard.
The rings rattled and Lister opened his eyes.
He smiled, and Barbara, kneeling by the bed, put her arm round his neck.
"My dear!
You know me?"
"Of course!
I wanted you.
Since I got my senses back, I've tried to call you."
"You called not long since.
I cheated the nurse and came; but if you ought to be quiet, I mustn't talk.
The doctors said--"

"They don't understand," said Lister.
"Now I have seen you, I'm going to get well."
Barbara lifted her head and studied him.
His face was pinched, his skin was very white and wet.
Her eyes filled and she was moved by tender pity.
"Oh, my dear!"
she said.
"It was for my sake you went!"
Lister took her hand, and she felt his was thin and hot.
"I'm paid for all!
But, Barbara, I think you're _logical_ When I'm better--?"
She kissed him.
"Of course.
I'll marry you when you like.
In the meantime you're weak and tired and must go to sleep."
"I am tired," he admitted.
"Besides, the nurse will come."
Barbara gently touched his wet hair and moved his pillow.
"The nurse is not important, but you mustn't talk."
She gave him her hand again and he went to sleep.
Some time afterwards the nurse returned and started when she saw the white figure kneeling by the bed.
Then she began to talk angrily in a low voice.
Barbara was getting cramped, but without moving her body, she looked at the nurse and her eyes sparkled with rebellious fire.
"Be quiet; he mustn't wake!"
she said.
"There's no use in arguing.
I mean to stay!"
