CHAPTER I

Change of scene, regular employment, attention to my pupils, and the conscious pride of independence, afforded a temporary relief to my spirits.
My first care, on my arrival in town, was to gladden the mind of my dear benefactress, by a minute detail of the present comforts and occupations.
She had charged me with affectionate remembrance and letters to her son.
I enclosed these letters; and, after informing him (in the cover) of the change of my situation, and the incident which had occasioned it, complained of the silence he had observed towards my last letter.
--'If,' said I, 'from having observed the social and       sympathetic nature of our feelings and affections, I       suffered myself to yield, involuntarily, to the soothing       idea, that the ingenuous avowal of an attachment so tender,       so sincere, so artless, as mine, could not have been       unaffecting to a mind with which my own proudly claimed       kindred:--if I fondly believed, that simplicity, modesty,       truth--the eye beaming with sensibility, the cheek mantling       with the glow of affection, the features softened, the       accents modulated, by ineffable tenderness, might, in the       eyes of a virtuous man, have supplied the place of more       dazzling accomplishments, and more seductive charms: if I       over-rated my own merit, and my own powers--surely my       mistakes were sufficiently humiliating!
You should not,       indeed you should not, have obliged me to arrive at the       conviction through a series of deductions so full of       mortification and anguish.
You are too well acquainted with       the human heart not to be sensible, that no certainty can       equal the misery of conjecture, in a mind of ardour--the       agonizing images which _suspense_ forces upon the tender       and sensible heart!
You should have written, in pity to the       situation of my mind.
I would have thanked you for being       ingenuous, even though, like Hamlet, you had _spoke       daggers_.
I expected it, from your character, and I had a       claim to your sincerity.
'But it is past!--the vision is dissolved!
The barbed arrow       is not extracted with more pain, than the enchantments of       hope from the ardent and sanguine spirit!
But why am I to       lose your friendship?
My heart tells me, I have not deserved       this!
Do not suspect, that I have so little justice, or so       little magnanimity, as to refuse you the privilege, the       enviable privilege, of being master of your own affections.
I am unhappy, I confess; the principal charm of my life is       fled, and the hopes that should enliven future prospects are       faint: melancholy too often obscures reason, and a heart,       perhaps too tender, preys on itself.
'I suspect I had formed some vain and extravagant       expectations.
I could have loved you, had you permitted it,       with no mean, nor common attachment.--My words, my looks, my       actions, betrayed me, ere I suffered my feelings to dictate       to my pen.
Would to God, I had buried this fatal secret in       the bottom of my soul!
But repentance is, now, too late.
Yet       the sensible heart yearns to disclose itself--and to whom       can it confide its sentiments, with equal propriety, as to       him who will know how to pity the errors, of which he feels       himself, however involuntarily, the cause?
The world might       think my choice in a confident singular; it has been my       misfortune seldom to think with the world, and I ought,       perhaps, patiently to submit to the inconveniences to which       this singularity has exposed me.
'I know not how, without doing myself a painful violence, to       relinquish your society; and why, let me again ask, should       I?
I now desire only that repose which is the end of doubt,       and this, I think, I should regain by one hour's frank       conversation with you; I would compose myself, listen to       you, and yield to the sovereignty of reason.
After such an       interview, my mind--no longer harrassed by vague suspicion,       by a thousand nameless apprehensions and inquietudes--should       struggle to subdue itself--at least, I would not permit it       to dictate to my pen, not to bewilder my conduct.
I am       exhausted by perturbation.
I ask only certainty and rest.
'EMMA.'
A few days after I had written the preceding letter, Mr Harley called on me.
Mrs Denbeigh was with me on his entrance; I would have given worlds to have received him alone, but had not courage to hint this to my relation.
Overwhelmed by a variety of emotions, I was unable for some time to make any reply to his friendly enquiries after my health, and congratulations on my amended prospects.
My confusion and embarrassment were but too apparent; perceiving my distress, he kindly contrived to engage my hostess in discourse, that I might have time to rally my spirits.
By degrees, I commanded myself sufficiently to join in the conversation--I spoke to him of his mother, expressed the lively sense I felt of her goodness, and my unaffected regret at parting with her.
Animated by my subject, and encouraged by the delicacy of Augustus, I became more assured: we retraced the amusements and studies of H----shire, and two hours passed delightfully and insensibly away, when Mrs Denbeigh was called out of the room to speak to a person who brought her letters and intelligence from the India House.
Mr Harley, rising at the same time from his seat, seemed about to depart, but hesitating, stood a few moments as if irresolute.
'You leave me,' said I, in a low and tremulous tone, 'and you leave me still in suspense?'
'Could you,' replied he, visibly affected, 'but have seen me on the receipt of your last letter, you would have perceived that my feelings were not enviable--Your affecting expostulation, added to other circumstances of a vexatious nature, oppressed my spirits with a burthen more than they were able to sustain.'
He resumed his seat, spoke of his situation, of the tenure on which he held his fortune,--'I am neither a stoic nor a philosopher,' added he,--'I knew not how--_I could not answer your letter_.
What shall I say?--I am with-held from explaining myself further, by reasons --_obligations_--Who can look back on every action of his past life with approbation?
Mine has not been free from error!
I am distressed, perplexed--_Insuperable obstacles_ forbid what otherwise'--

'I feel,' said I, interrupting him, 'that I am the victim of my own weakness and vanity--I feel, that I have been rushing headlong into the misery which you kindly sought to spare me--I am sensible of your delicacy--of your humanity!--And is it with the full impression of your virtues on my heart that I must teach that heart to renounce you--renounce, for ever, the man with whose pure and elevated mind my own panted to mingle?
My reason has been blinded by the illusions of my self-love--and, while I severely suffer, I own my sufferings just--yet, the sentiments you inspired were worthy of you!
I understand little of--I have violated common forms--seeking your tenderness, I have perhaps forfeited your esteem!'
'Far, _very far_, from it--I would, but cannot, say more.'
'Must we, then, separate for ever--will you no longer assist me in the pursuit of knowledge and truth--will you no more point out to me the books I should read, and aid me in forming a just judgment of the principles they contain--Must all your lessons be at an end--all my studies be resigned?
How, without your counsel and example, shall I regain my strength of mind--to what _end_ shall I seek to improve myself, when I dare no longer hope to be worthy of him--'

A flood of tears checked my utterance; hiding my face with my hands, I gave way to the kindly relief, but for which my heart had broken.
I heard footsteps in the passage, and the voice of Mrs Denbeigh as speaking to her servant--covered with shame and grief, I dared not in this situation appear before her, but, rushing out at an opposite door, hid myself in my chamber.
A train of confused recollections tortured my mind, I concluded, that Augustus had another, a prior attachment.
I felt, with this conviction, that I had not the fortitude, and that perhaps I ought not, to see him again.
I wrote to him under this impression; I poured out my soul in anguish, in sympathy, in fervent aspirations for his happiness.
These painful and protracted conflicts affected my health, a deep and habitual depression preyed upon my spirits, and, surveying every object through the medium of a distempered imagination, I grew disgusted with life.
CHAPTER II

I began, at length, to think, that I had been too precipitate, and too severe to myself.--Why was I to sacrifice a friend, from whose conversation I had derived improvement and pleasure?
I repeated this question to myself, again and again; and I blushed and repented.
But I deceived myself.
I had too frequently acted with precipitation, I determined, now, to be more prudent--I waited three months, fortified my mind with many reflections, and resumed my pen--

TO AUGUSTUS HARLEY.
'Near three months have elapsed, since I last addressed you.
I remind you of this, not merely to suppress, as it arises,       any apprehension which you may entertain of further       embarrassment or importunity: for I can no longer afflict       myself with the idea, that my peace, or welfare, are       indifferent to you, but will rather adopt the sentiment of       Plato--who on being informed, that one of his disciples,       whom he had more particularly distinguished, had spoken ill       of him, replied, to the slanderer--"I do not believe you,       for it is impossible that I should not be esteemed by one       whom I so sincerely regard."
'My motive, for calling to your remembrance the date of my       last, is, that you should consider what I am now about to       say, as the result of calmer reflection, the decision of       judgment after having allowed the passions leisure to       subside.
It is, perhaps, unnecessary to premise, that I am       not urged on by pride, from an obscure consciousness of       having been betrayed into indiscretion, to endeavour to       explain away, or to extenuate, any part of my former       expressions or conduct.
To a mind like yours, such an       attempt would be impertinent; from one like mine, I hope,       superfluous.
I am not ashamed of being a human being, nor       blush to own myself liable to "the shakes and agues of his       fragile nature."
I have ever spoken, and acted, from the       genuine dictates of a mind swayed, at the time, by its own       views and propensities, nor have I hesitated, as those       views and propensities have changed, to avow my further       convictions--"Let not the coldly wise exult, that their       heads were never led astray by their hearts."
I have all       along used, and shall continue to use, the unequivocal       language of sincerity.
'However _romantic_ (a vague term applied to every thing we       do not understand, or are unwilling to intimate) my views       and sentiments might appear to many, I dread not, from you,       this frigid censure.
"The ideas, the associations, the       circumstances of each man are properly his own, and it is a       pernicious system, that would lead us to require all men,       however different their circumstances, to act in many of the       common affairs of life, by a precise, general rule.
"[10]       The genuine effusions of the heart and mind are easily       distinguished, by the penetrating eye, from the vain       ostentation of sentiment, lip deep, which, causing no       emotion, communicates none--Oh!
how unlike the energetic       sympathies of truth and feeling--darting from mind to mind,       enlightening, warming, with electrical rapidity!
[Footnote 10: Godwin's Political Justice.]
'My ideas have undergone, in the last three months, many       fluctuations.
My _affection_ for you (why should I seek       for vague, inexpressive phrases?)
has not ceased, has not       diminished, but it has, in some measure, changed its nature.
It was originally generated by the report, and cemented by       the knowledge, of your virtues and talents; and to virtue       and talents my mind had ever paid unfeigned, enthusiastic,       homage!
It is somewhere said by Rousseau--"That there may       exist such a suitability of moral, mental, and personal,       qualifications, as should point out the propriety of an       union between a prince and the daughter of an executioner."
Vain girl that I was!
I flattered myself that between us       this sympathy really existed.
I dwelt on the union between       mind and mind--sentiments of nature gently insinuated       themselves--my sensibility grew more tender, more       affecting--and my imagination, ever lively, traced the       glowing picture, and dipped the pencil in rainbow tints!
Possessing one of those determined spirits, that is not       easily induced to relinquish its purposes--while I conceived       that I had only your pride, or your insensibility, to       combat, I wildly determined to persevere.--A further       recapitulation would, perhaps, be unnecessary:--my       situation, alas!
is now changed.
'Having then examined my heart, attentively and       deliberately, I suspect that I have been unjust to       myself, in supposing it incapable of a disinterested       attachment.--Why am I to deprive you of a faithful friend,       and myself of all the benefits I may yet derive from your       conversation and kind offices?
I ask, why?
And I should,       indeed, have cause to blush, if, after having had time for       reflection, I could really think this necessary.
Shall I,       then, sign the unjust decree, that women are incapable of       energy and fortitude?
Have I exercised my understanding,       without ever intending to apply my principles to practice?
Do I mean always to deplore the prejudices which have,       systematically, weakened the female character, without       making any effort to rise above them?
Is the example       you have given me, of a steady adherence to honour and       principle, to be merely respected, without exciting in my       bosom any emulation?
Dare I to answer these questions in the       affirmative, and still ask your esteem--the esteem of the       wise and good?--I dare not!
No longer weakened by alternate       hopes and fears, like the reed yielding to every breeze, I       believe myself capable of acting upon firmer principles;       and I request, with confidence, the restoration of your       friendship!
Should I afterwards find, that I have over-rated       my own strength, I will frankly tell you so, and expect       from your humanity those allowances, which are but a poor       substitute for respect.
'Believe, then, my views and motives to be simply such as I       state them; at least, such, after severely scrutinizing my       heart, they appear to myself; and reply to me with similar       ingenuousness.
My expectations are very moderate: answer me       with simplicity--my very soul sickens at evasion!
You have       undoubtedly, a right to judge and to determine for yourself;       but it will be but just to state to me the reasons for, and       the result of, that judgment; in which case, if I cannot       obviate those reasons, I shall be bound, however reluctantly,       to acquiesce in them.
Be assured, I will never complain of       any consequences which may ensue, even, from the utterance       of all truth.
'EMMA.'
CHAPTER III

This letter was succeeded by a renewal of our intercourse and studies.
Mrs Denbeigh, my kind hostess, was usually of our parties.
We read together, or conversed only on general topics, or upon subjects of literature.
I was introduced by Mr Harley to several respectable families, friends of his own and of his mother's.
I made many indirect enquiries of our common acquaintance, with a view to discover the supposed object of my friend's attachment, but without success.
All that he had, himself, said, respecting such an engagement, had been so vague, that I began to doubt of the reality of its existence.--When, in any subsequent letters (for we continued occasionally to correspond) I ventured to allude to the subject, I was warned 'not to confound my own conceptions with real existences.'
When he spoke of a susceptibility to the tender affections, it was always in the past time,--'I _have_ felt,'--'I _have_ been--'Once he wrote--'His situation had been rendered difficult, by a combination of _peculiar circumstances_; circumstances, with which but few persons were acquainted.'
Sometimes he would affect to reflect upon his past conduct, and warn me against appreciating him too highly.
In fine, he was a perfect enigma, and every thing which he said or wrote tended to increase the mystery.
A restless, an insatiable, curiosity, devoured me, heightened by feelings that every hour became more imperious, more uncontroulable.
I proposed to myself, in the gratification of this curiosity, a satisfaction that should compensate for all the injuries I might suffer in the career.
This inquietude prevented my mind from resting; and, by leaving room for conjecture, left room for the illusions of fancy, and of hope.
Had I never expressed this, he might have affected ignorance of my sensations; he might have pleaded guiltless, when, in the agony of my soul, I accused him of having sacrificed my peace to his disingenuousness--but vain were all my expostulations!
'If,' said I, 'I have sought, too earnestly, to learn the state of your affections, it has been with a view to the more effectually disciplining of my own--of stifling every _ignis fatuus_ of false hope, that making, even, impossibilities possible, will still, at times, continue to mislead me.
Objects seen through obscurity, imperfectly discerned, allow to the fancy but too free a scope; the mind grows debilitated, by brooding over its apprehensions; and those apprehensions, whether real or imaginary, are carried with accumulated pain to the heart.
I have said, on this subject, you have a right to be free; but I am, now, doubtful of this right: the health of my mind being involved in the question, has rendered it a question of _utility_--and on what other basis can morals rest?'
I frequently reiterated these reasonings, always with encreased fervor and earnestness: represented--'that every step I took in advance would be miles in return--every minute that the blow was suspended, prepared it to descend with accumulated force.'
I required no particulars, but merely requested to be assured of _a present, existing, engagement_.
I continued, from time to time, to urge this subject.
'Much,' said I, 'as I esteem you, and deeply as a thousand       associations have fixed your idea in my heart--in true       candour of soul, I, yet, feel myself your superior.--I       recollect a sentiment of Richardson's Clarissa that always       pleased me, and that may afford a test, by which each of us       may judge of the integrity of our own minds--"I should be       glad that you, and all the world, knew my heart; let my       enemies sit in judgment upon my actions; fairly scanned,       I fear not the result.
Let them ask me my most secret       thoughts; and, whether they make for me, or against me, I       will reveal them."
'This is the principle, my friend, upon which I have acted       towards you.
I have said many things, I doubt not, which       make against me; but I trusted them to one, who told me,       that he had made the human heart his study: and it is only       in compliance with the prejudices of others, if I have taken       any pains to conceal all I have thought and felt on this,       or on any other, subject, from the rest of the world.
Had I       not, in the wild career of fervent feeling, had sufficient       strength of mind to stop short, and to reason calmly, how       often, in the bitterness of my spirit, should I have accused       you of sporting with my feelings, by involving me in a       hopeless maze of conjecture--by leaving me a prey to the       constant, oppressive, apprehension of hearing something,       which I should not have had the fortitude to support with       dignity; which, in proportion as it is delayed, still       contributes to harrass, to weaken, to incapacitate, my mind       from bearing its disclosure.
'I know you might reply--and more than nine-tenths of the       world would justify you in this reply--"That you had already       said, what ought to have been sufficient, and would have       been so to any other human being;--that you had not sought       the confidence I boast of having reposed in you;--and       that so far from affording you any satisfaction, it has       occasioned you only perplexity.
If my own destiny was not       equivocal, of what importance could it be to me, and what       right had I to enquire after circumstances, in which,       however affecting, I could have no real concern."
'You may think all this, perhaps--I will not spare       myself--and it may be reasonable.
_But could you say       it_--and have you, indeed, studied the human heart--_have       you, indeed, ever felt the affections?_--Whatever may be the       event--and it is in the mind of powers only that passions       are likely to become fatal--and however irreproachable every       other part of your conduct may have been, I shall, _here_,       always say, you were culpable!'
I changed my style.
'I know not,' said I, 'the nature of those stern duties,       which oblige you to with-hold from me your tenderness;       neither do I any longer enquire.
I dread, only, lest I       should acquire this knowledge when I am the least able to       support it.
Ignorant, then, of any reasons which should       prevent me from giving up my heart to an attachment, now       become interwoven with my existence, I yield myself up to       these sweet and affecting emotions, so necessary to my       disposition--to which apathy is abhorrent.
"The affections       (truly says Sterne) must be exercised on something; for, not       to love, is to be miserable.
Were I in a desart, I would       find out wherewith in it to call forth my affections.
If I       could do no better, I would fasten them upon some sweet       myrtle, or seek some melancholy cypress to connect myself       to--I would court their shade, and greet them kindly for       their protection.
I would cut my name upon them, and swear       they were the loveliest trees throughout the desart.
If       their leaves withered, I would teach myself to mourn; and,       when they rejoiced, I would rejoice with them."
'An attachment, founded upon a full conviction of worth,       must be both safe and salutary.
My mind has not sufficient       strength to form an abstract idea of perfection.
I have ever       found it stimulated, improved, advanced, by its affections.
I will, then, continue to love you with fervor and purity; I       will see you with joy, part from you with regret, grieve in       your griefs, enter with zeal into your concerns, interest       myself in your honour and welfare, and endeavour, with       all my little power, to contribute to your comfort and       satisfaction.--Is your heart so differently constituted from       every other human heart, that an affection, thus ardent and       sincere, excites in it no grateful, and soothing, emotions?
Why, then, withdraw yourself from me, and by that means       afflict, and sink into despondency, a mind that entrusts its       peace to your keeping.
'EMMA.'
We met the next day at the house of a common friend.
My accents, involuntarily, were softened, my attentions pointed.--Manifestly agitated, embarrassed, even distressed, Augustus quitted the company at an early hour.
It would be endless to enumerate all the little incidents that occurred; which, however trifling they might appear in the recital, continued to operate in one direction.
Many letters passed to the same purport.
My curiosity was a consuming passion; but this inflexible, impenetrable, man, was still silent, or alternately evaded, and resented, my enquiries.
We continued, occasionally, to meet, but generally in company.
CHAPTER IV

During the ensuing summer, Mr Harley proposed making a visit to his mother, and, calling to take his leave of me, on the evening preceding his journey, accidentally found me alone.--We entered into conversation on various subjects: twilight stole upon us unperceived.
The obscure light inspired me with courage: I ventured to resume a subject, so often discussed; I complained, gently, of his reserve.
'Could I suppose,' he asked, 'that he had been without _his share_ of suffering?'
I replied something, I scarce know what, adverting to his stronger mind.
'Strength!'
said he, turning from me with emotion, 'rather say, weakness!'
I reiterated the important, the so often proposed, enquiry--'Had he, or had he not, a _present, existing, engagement_?'
He endeavoured to evade my question--I repeated it--He answered, with a degree of impatience, '_I cannot tell you_; if I could, do you think I would have been silent so long?'
--as once, before, he spoke of the circumstances of his past life, as being of '_a singular, a peculiar, nature_.'
At our separation, I asked, if he would write to me during his absence.
'Certainly, he would.'
The next morning, having some little commissions to execute for Mrs Harley, I sent them, accompanied by a few lines, to her son.
'Why is it,' said I, 'that our sagacity, and penetration, frequently desert us on the most interesting occasions?
I can read any mind with greater facility than I can read your's; and, yet, what other have I so attentively studied?
This is a problem I know not how to solve.
One conclusion will force itself upon me--if a mistaken one, whom have you to blame?--That an _honourable_, suitable, engagement, could have given no occasion for mystery.'
I added, 'I should depend on hearing from him, according to his promise.'
Week after week, month after month, wore away, and no letter arrived.
Perturbation was succeeded by anxiety and apprehension; but hearing, through my maternal friend, Mrs Harley, of the welfare of this object of our too tender cares, my solicitude subsided into despondency.
The pressure of one corroding train of ideas preyed, like a canker-worm, upon my heart, and destroyed all its tranquillity.
In the beginning of the winter, this mysterious, inexplicable, being, again returned to town.
I had undertaken a little business, to serve him, during his absence--I transmitted to him an account of my proceedings; subjoining a gentle reproach for his unkind silence.
'You promised you would write to me,' said I, 'during your residence in ----shire.
I therefore depended upon hearing from you; and, yet, I was disappointed.
You should not, indeed you should not, make these experiments upon my mind.
My sensibility, originally acute, from having been too much exercised, has become nearly morbid, and has almost unfitted me for an inhabitant of this world.
I am willing to believe, that your conduct towards me has originated in good motives, nevertheless, you have made some sad mistakes--you have _deeply_, though undesignedly, wounded me: I have been harrassed, distressed, mortified.
You know not, neither will I attempt to describe, all I have suffered!
language would be inadequate to paint the struggles of a delicate, susceptible, mind, in some peculiar and interesting situations.
'You may suspect me of wanting resolution, but strong, persevering affections, are no mark of a weak mind.
To have been the wife of a man of virtue and talents was my dearest ambition, and would have been my glory: I judged myself worthy of the confidence and affection of such a man--I felt, that I could have united in his pursuits, and shared his principles--aided the virtuous energies of his mind, and assured his domestic comforts.
I earnestly sought to inspire you with tenderness, from the conviction, that I could contribute to your happiness, and to the worth of your character.
And if, from innumerable associations, I at length loved your person, it was the magnanimity of your conduct, it was your virtues, that first excited my admiration and esteem.
But you have rejected an attachment originating in the highest, the purest, principles--you have thrown from you a heart of exquisite sensibility, and you leave me in doubt, whether you have not sacrificed that heart to prejudice.
Yet, contemned affection has excited in my mind no resentment; true tenderness is made up of gentle and amiable emotions; nothing hostile, nothing severe, can mix with it: it may gradually subside, but it will continue to soften the mind it has once subdued.
'I see much to respect in your conduct, and though, it is probable, some parts of it may have originated in mistaken principles, I trust, that their source was pure!
I, also, have made many mistakes--have been guilty of many extravagances.
Yet, distrust the morality, that sternly commands you to pierce the bosom that most reveres you, and then to call it virtue--_Yes!
distrust and suspect its origin!_' I concluded with expressing a wish to see him--'_merely as a friend_'--requesting a line in reply.
He wrote not, but came, unexpectedly came, the next evening.
I expressed, in lively terms, the pleasure I felt in seeing him.
We conversed on various subjects, he spoke affectionately of his mother, and of the tender interest she had expressed for my welfare.
He enquired after my pursuits and acquirements during his absence, commending the progress I had made.
Just before he quitted me, he adverted to the reproach I had made him, for not having written to me, according to his engagement.
'Recollect,' said he, 'in the last letter I received from you, before I left London, you hinted some suspicions--' I looked at him, 'and what,' added he, 'could I reply?'
I was disconcerted, I changed colour, and had no power to pursue the subject.
CHAPTER V

From this period, he continued to visit me (I confess at my solicitation) more frequently.
We occasionally resumed our scientific pursuits, read together, or entered into discussion on various topics.
At length he grew captious, disputatious, gloomy, and imperious--the more I studied to please him, the less I succeeded.
He disapproved my conduct, my opinions, my sentiments; my frankness offended him.
This change considerably affected me.
In company, his manners were studiously cold and distant; in private capricious, yet reserved and guarded.
He seemed to overlook all my efforts to please, and, with a severe and penetrating eye, to search only for my errors--errors, into which I was but too easily betrayed, by the painful, and delicate, situation, in which I had placed myself.
We, one day, accompanied Mrs Denbeigh on a visit of congratulation to her brother (eldest son of my deceased uncle Mr Melmoth), who had, when a youth, been placed by his father in a commercial house in the West Indies, and who had just returned to his native country with an ample fortune.
His sister and myself anticipated the pleasure of renewing our early, fraternal, affection and intimacy, while I felt a secret pride in introducing to his acquaintance a man so accomplished and respectable as Mr Harley.
We were little aware of the changes which time and different situations produce on the character, and, with hearts and minds full of the frank, lively, affectionate, youth, from whom we had parted, seven years since, with mutual tears and embraces, shrunk spontaneously, on our arrival at Mr Melmoth's elegant house in Bedford square, from the cold salutation, of the haughty, opulent, purse-proud, Planter, surrounded by ostentatious luxuries, and evidently valuing himself upon the consequence which he imagined they must give him in our eyes.
Mr Harley received the formal compliments of this favourite of fortune with the easy politeness which distinguishes the gentleman and the man of letters, and the dignified composure which the consciousness of worth and talents seldom fails to inspire.
Mr Melmoth, by his awkward and embarrassed manner, tacitly acknowledged the impotence of wealth and the real superiority of his guest.
We were introduced by our stately relation to his wife, the lady of the mansion, a young woman whom he had accidentally met with in a party of pleasure at Jamaica, whither she had attended a family in the humble office of companion or chief attendant to the lady.
Fascinated by her beauty and lively manner, our trader had overlooked an empty mind, a low education, and a doubtful character, and, after a very few interviews, tendered to her acceptance his hand and fortune; which, though not without some affectation of doubt and delay, were in a short time joyfully accepted.
A gentleman joined our party in the dining-room, whom the servant announced by the name of Pemberton, in whom I presently recognized, notwithstanding some years had elapsed since our former meeting, the man of fashon and gallantry who had been the antagonist of Mr Francis, at the table of my father.
He had lately (we were informed by our host) been to Jamaica, to take possession of an estate bequeathed to him, and had returned to England in the same vessel with Mr and Mrs Melmoth.
After an elegant dinner of several courses had been served up and removed for the desert, a desultory conversation took place.
Mr Pemberton, it appeared, held a commission in the militia, and earnestly solicited Mrs Melmoth, on whom he lavished a profusion of compliments, to grace their encampment, which was to be stationed in the ensuing season near one of the fashionable watering places, with her presence.
This request the lady readily promised to comply with, expressing, in tones of affected softness, her admiration of military men, and of the

'Pride, pomp and circumstance of glorious war!'
'Do you not think, Miss Courtney,' said she, turning to me, 'that soldiers are the most agreeable and charming men in the world?'
'Indeed I do not, Madam; their trade is _murder_, and their trappings, in my eyes, appear but as the gaudy pomp of sacrifice.'
'_Murder_, indeed!
What a harsh word--I declare you are a shocking creature--There have always been wars in the world, and there always must be: but surely you would not confound the brave fellows, who fight to protect their King and Country, and _the ladies_, with common ruffians and housebreakers!'
'All the difference between them is, that the one, rendered desperate by passion, poverty, or injustice, endeavours by _wrong_ means to do himself _right_, and through this terrible and pitiable mistake destroys the life or the property of a fellow being--The others, wantonly and in cold blood, cut down millions of their species, ravage whole towns and cities, and carry devastation through a country.'
'What _odd notions_!
Dear, Mr Pemberton, did you ever hear a lady talk so strangely?'
Thus called upon, Mr Pemberton thought it incumbent upon him to interfere--'_Courtney_, I think, Madam, your name is!
The daughter of an old friend of mine, if I am not mistaken, and who, I remember, was, when a very young lady, a great admirer of _Roman virtues_.'
'Not of _Roman virtues_, I believe, Sir; they had in them too much of the destructive spirit which Mrs Melmoth thinks so admirable.'
'Indeed, I said nothing about _Roman virtues_, nor do I trouble myself with such subjects--I merely admired the soldiers because they are so brave and so polite; besides, the military dress is so elegant and becoming--Dear, Mr Pemberton, how charmingly you must look in your regimentals!'
Mr Pemberton, bowing in return to the compliment, made an animated eulogium on the taste and beauty of the speaker.
'Pray, Sir,' resumed she, addressing herself to Mr Harley, whose inattention seemed to pique her, and whose notice she was determined to attract, 'are you of Miss Courtney's opinion--do you think it right to call soldiers _murderers_?'
'Upon my word, Madam,' with an air of irony, 'you must excuse me from entering into such _nice distinctions_--when _ladies_ differ, who shall presume to decide?'
Mr Melmoth interposed, by wishing, 'that they had some thousands more of these _murderers_ in the West Indies, to keep the slaves in subordination, who, since absurd notions of liberty had been put into their heads, were grown very troublesome and refractory, and, in a short time, he supposed, would become as insolent as the English servants.'
'Would you believe it, Mrs Denbeigh,' said the Planter's lady, addressing the sister of her husband, 'Mr Melmoth and I have been in England but a month, and have been obliged three times to change our whole suit of servants?'
'This is a land of freedom, my dear sister; servants, here, will not submit to be treated like the slaves of Jamaica.'
'Well, I am sure it is very provoking to have one's will disputed by such low, ignorant, creatures.
How should they know what is right?
It is enough for them to obey the orders of their superiors.'
'But suppose,' replied Mrs Denbeigh, 'they should happen to think their superiors unreasonable!'
'_Think!_ sister,' said the lordly Mr Melmoth, with an exulting laugh, 'what have _servants_, or _women_, to do with _thinking_?'
'Nay, now,' interrupted Mr Pemberton, 'you are too severe upon the ladies--how would the elegant and tasteful arrangement of Mrs Melmoth's ornaments have been produced without thinking?'
'Oh, you flatterer!'
said the lady.
'Let them think only about their dress, and I have no objection, but don't let them plague us with _sermonizing_.'
'Mrs Melmoth,' said I, coolly, 'does not often, I dare say, offend _in this way_.
That some of the gentlemen, present, should object to a woman's exercising her discriminating powers, is not wonderful, since it might operate greatly to their disadvantage.'
'A blow on the right cheek, from so fair a hand,' replied Mr Pemberton, affectedly bending his body, 'would almost induce one to adopt the christian maxim, and turn the left, also.
What say you, Mr Harley?'
'Mr Harley, I believe, Sir, does not feel himself included in the reflection.'
'He is a happy man then.'
'No, Sir, merely a _rational one_!'
'You are pleased to be severe; of all things I dread a female wit.'
'It is an instinctive feeling of self-preservation--nature provides weak animals with timidity as a guard.'
Mr Pemberton reddened, and, affecting a careless air, hummed a tune.
Mr Melmoth again reverted to the subject of English servants, which gave rise to a discussion on the Slave Trade.
Mr Harley pleaded the cause of freedom and humanity with a bold and manly eloquence, expatiating warmly on the iniquity as well as impolicy of so accursed a traffic.
Melmoth was awed into silence.
Mr Pemberton advanced some trite arguments in opposition, respecting the temporary mischiefs which might ensue, in case of an abolition, to the planters, landholders, traders, &c. Augustus explained, by contending only for the gradual emancipation, after their minds had been previously prepared, of the oppressed Africans.
The conversation grew interesting.
Pemberton was not devoid of talents when he laid aside his affectation; the subject was examined both in a moral and a political point of view.
I listened with delight, while Augustus exposed and confuted the specious reasoning and sophistry of his antagonist: exulting in the triumph of truth and justice, I secretly gloried--'with more than selfish vanity'--in the virtues and abilities of my friend.
Though driven from all his resources, Mr Pemberton was too much the courtier to be easily disconcerted, but complimenting his adversary on his eloquence, declared he should be happy to hear of his having a seat in Parliament.
Mrs Melmoth, who had yawned and betrayed various symptoms of weariness during the discussion, now proposed the adjournment of the ladies into the drawing-room, whither I was compelled, by a barbarous and odious custom, reluctantly to follow, and to submit to be entertained with a torrent of folly and impertinence.
'I was ill-natured,' she told me.--'How could I be so severe upon the _charming_ and _elegant_ Mr Pemberton?'
It was in vain I laboured to convince her, that to be treated like ideots was no real compliment, and that the men who condescend to flatter our foibles, despised the weak beings they helped to form.
My remonstrances were as fatiguing, and as little to be comprehended by this _fine lady_, as the arguments respecting the Slave Trade:--she sought refuge from them in interrogating Mrs Denbeigh respecting the last new fashions, and in consulting her taste on the important question--whether blue or violet colour was the most becoming to a brunette complexion?
The gentlemen joined us, to our great relief, at the tea-table:--other company dropped in, and the evening was beguiled with cards and the chess-board;--at the latter Mr Melmoth and Mr Harley were antagonists;--the former was no match for Augustus.
I amused myself by observing their moves, and overlooking the game.
During our return from this visit, some conversation occurred between Mr Harley, my cousin, and myself, respecting the company we had quitted.
I expressed my disappointment, disgust, and contempt, in terms, it may be, a little too strong.
'I was _fastidious_,' Augustus told me, 'I wanted a world made on purpose for me, and beings formed after one model.
It was both amusing, and instructive, to contemplate varieties of character.
I was a romantic enthusiast--and should endeavour to become more like an inhabitant of the world.'
Piqued at these remarks, and at the tone and manner in which they were uttered, I felt my temper rising, and replied with warmth; but it was the glow of a moment; for, to say truth, vexation and disappointment, rather than reason, had broken and subdued my spirit.
Mrs Denbeigh, perceiving I was pained, kindly endeavoured to give a turn to the conversation; yet she could not help expressing her regret, on observing the folly, levity, and extravagance, of the woman whom her brother had chosen for a wife.
'No doubt,' said Augustus, a little peevishly, 'he is fond of her--she is a fine woman--there is no accounting for the _caprices_ of the affections.'
I sighed, and my eyes filled with tears--'Is, then, affection so _capricious_ a sentiment--is it possible to love what we despise?'
'I cannot tell,' retorted Mr Harley, with quickness.
'Triflers can give no _serious_ occasion for uneasiness:--the humours of superior women are sometimes still less tolerable.'
'Ah!
how unjust.
If gentleness be not _the perfection of reason_, it is a quality which I have never, yet, properly understood.'
He made no reply, but sunk into silence, reserve, and reverie.
On our arrival at my apartments, I ventured (my cousin having left us) to expostulate with him on his unkind behaviour; but was answered with severity.
Some retrospection ensued, which gradually led to the subject ever present to my thoughts.--Again I expressed a solicitude to be informed of the real state of his heart, of the nature of those mysterious obstacles, to which, when clearly ascertained, I was ready to submit.--'Had he, or had he not, an attachment, that looked to, as its _end_, a serious and legal engagement?'
He appeared ruffled and discomposed.--'I ought not to be so urgent--he had already sufficiently explained himself.'
He then repeated to me some particulars, apparently adverse to such a supposition--asking me, in his turn, 'If these circumstances bespoke his having any such event in view?'
CHAPTER VI

For some time after this he absented himself from me; and, when he returned, his manners were still more unequal; even his sentiments, and principles, at times, appeared to me equivocal, and his character seemed wholly changed.
I tried, in vain, to accommodate myself to a disposition so various.
My affection, my sensibility, my fear of offending--a thousand conflicting, torturing, emotions, threw a constraint over my behaviour.--My situation became absolutely intolerable--time was murdered, activity vain, virtue inefficient: yet, a secret hope inspired me, that _indifference_ could not have produced the irritations, the inequalities, that thus harrassed me.
I thought, I observed a conflict in his mind; his fits of absence, and reflection, were unusual, deep, and frequent: I watched them with anxiety, with terror, with breathless expectation.
My health became affected, and my mind disordered.
I perceived that it was impossible to proceed, in the manner we had hitherto done, much longer--I felt that it would, inevitably, destroy me.
I reflected, meditated, reasoned, with myself--'That one channel, into which my thoughts were incessantly impelled, was destructive of all order, of all connection.'
New projects occurred to me, which I had never before ventured to encourage--I revolved them in my mind, examined them in every point of view, weighed their advantages and disadvantages, in a moral, in a prudential, scale.--Threatening evils appeared on all sides--I endeavoured, at once, to free my mind from prejudice, and from passion; and, in the critical and _singular_ circumstances in which I had placed myself, coolly to survey the several arguments of the case, and nicely to calculate their force and importance.
'If, as we are taught to believe, the benevolent Author of nature be, indeed, benevolent,' said I, to myself, 'he surely must have intended the _happiness_ of his creatures.
Our morality cannot extend to him, but must consist in the knowledge, and practice, of those duties which we owe to ourselves and to each other.--Individual happiness constitutes the general good:--_happiness_ is the only true _end_ of existence; --all notions of morals, founded on any other principle, involve in themselves a contradiction, and must be erroneous.
Man does right, when pursuing interest and pleasure--it argues no depravity--this is the fable of superstition: he ought to only be careful, that, in seeking his own good, he does not render it incompatible with the good of others--that he does not consider himself as standing alone in the universe.
The infraction of established _rules_ may, it is possible, in some cases, be productive of mischief; yet, it is difficult to state any _rule_ so precise and determinate, as to be alike applicable to every situation: what, in one instance, might be a _vice_, in another may possibly become a _virtue_:--a thousand imperceptible, evanescent, shadings, modify every thought, every motive, every action, of our lives--no one can estimate the sensations of, can form an exact judgment for, another.
'I have sometimes suspected, that all mankind are pursuing phantoms, however dignified by different appellations.--The healing operations of time, had I patience to wait the experiment, might, perhaps, recover my mind from its present distempered state; but, in the meanwhile, the bloom of youth is fading, and the vigour of life running to waste.--Should I, at length, awake from a delusive vision, it would be only to find myself a comfortless, solitary, shivering, wanderer, in the dreary wilderness of human society.
I feel in myself the capacities for increasing the happiness, and the improvement, of a few individuals--and this circle, spreading wider and wider, would operate towards the grand end of life--_general utility_.'
Again I repeated to myself--'Ascetic virtues are equally barbarous as vain:--the only just morals, are those which have a tendency to increase the bulk of enjoyment.
My plan tends to this.
The good which I seek does not appear to me to involve injury to any one--it is of a nature, adapted to the disposition of my mind, for which every event of my life, the education both of design and accident, have fitted me.
If I am now put out, I may, perhaps, do mischief:--the placid stream, forced from its channel, lays waste the meadow.
I seem to stand as upon a wide plain, bounded on all sides by the horizon:--among the objects which I perceive within these limits, some are so lofty, my eyes ache to look up to them; others so low, I disdain to stoop for them.
_One_, only, seems fitted to my powers, and to my wishes--_one, alone_, engages my attention!
Is not its possession worthy an arduous effort: _Perseverance_ can turn the course of rivers, and level mountains!
Shall I, then, relinquish my efforts, when, perhaps, on the very verge of success?
'The mind must have an object:--should I desist from my present pursuit, after all it has cost me, for what can I change it?
I feel, that I am neither a philosopher, nor a heroine--but a _woman, to whom education has given a sexual character_.
It is true, I have risen superior to the generality of my _oppressed sex_; yet, I have neither the talents for a legislator, nor for a reformer, of the world.
I have still many female foibles, and shrinking delicacies, that unfit me for rising to arduous heights.
Ambition cannot stimulate me, and to accumulate wealth, I am still less fitted.
Should I, then, do violence to my heart, and compel it to resign its hopes and expectations, what can preserve me from sinking into, the most abhorred of all states, _languor and inanity_?
--Alas!
that tender and faithful heart refuses to change its object--it can never love another.
Like Rousseau's Julia, my strong individual attachment has annihilated every man in the creation:--him I love appears, in my eyes, something more--every other, something less.
'I have laboured to improve myself, that I might be worthy of the situation I have chosen.
I would unite myself to a man of worth--I would have our mingled virtues and talents perpetuated in our offspring--I would experience those sweet sensations, of which nature has formed my heart so exquisitely susceptible.
My ardent sensibilities incite me to love--to seek to inspire sympathy--to be beloved!
My heart obstinately refuses to renounce the man, to whose mind my own seems akin!
From the centre of private affections, it will at length embrace--like spreading circles on the peaceful bosom of the smooth and expanded lake--the whole sensitive and rational creation.
Is it virtue, then, to combat, or to yield to, my passions?'
I considered, and reconsidered, these reasonings, so specious, so flattering, to which passion lent its force.
One moment, my mind seemed firmly made up on the part I had to act;--I persuaded myself, that I had gone too far to recede, and that there remained for me no alternative:--the next instant, I shrunk, gasping, from my own resolves, and shuddered at the important consequences which they involved.
Amidst a variety of perturbations, of conflicting emotions, I, at length, once more, took up my pen.
CHAPTER VII

TO AUGUSTUS HARLEY.
'I blush, when I reflect what a weak, wavering, inconsistent       being, I must lately have appeared to you.
I write to you on       important subjects--I forbid you to answer me on paper; and,       when you seem inclined to put that period to the present,       painful, high-wrought, and trying, state of my feelings,       which is now become so necessary, I appear neither to hear,       nor to comprehend you.
I fly from the subject, and thicken       the cloud of mystery, of which I have so often, and, I still       think, so justly complained.--These are some of the effects       of the contradictory systems, that have so long bewildered       our principles and conduct.
A combination of causes, added       to the conflict between a thousand delicate and nameless       emotions, have lately conspired to confuse, to weaken,       my spirits.
You can conceive, that these acute, mental,       sensations, must have had a temporary effect on the state       of my health.
To say truth (and, had I not said it, my       countenance would have betrayed me), I have not, for some       time past, been so thoroughly disordered.
'Once more, I have determined to rally my strength; for I       feel, that a much longer continuance in the situation,       in which my mind has been lately involved, would be       insupportable:--and I call upon you, _now_, with a       resolution to summon all my fortitude to bear the result,       for the _written_ state of your mind, on the topic become so       important to my future welfare and usefulness.
'You may suppose, that a mind like mine must have,       repeatedly, set itself to examine, on every side, all that       could possibly have a relation to a subject affecting it so       materially.
You have hinted at _mysterious_ obstacles to the       wish, in which every faculty of my soul has been so long       absorbed--the wish of forming with you, a connection,       nearer, _and more tender_, than that of friendship.
This       mystery, by leaving room for conjecture (and how frequently       have I warned you of this!
), left room for the illusions of       imagination, and of hope--left room for the suspicion, that       you might, possibly, be sacrificing _your own feelings_ as       well as mine, to a mistaken principle.
Is it possible that       you were not aware of this--you, who are not unacquainted       with the nature of the mind!
Still less were you ignorant       of the nature of my mind--which I had so explicitly, so       unreservedly, laid open!
I had a double claim upon your       confidence--a confidence, that I was utterly incapable of       abusing, or betraying--a confidence, which must have stopped       my mind in its career--which would have saved me the bitter,       agonizing, pangs I have sustained.
Mine were not common       feelings--it is _obscurity_ and _mystery_ which has wrought       them up to frenzy--_truth_ and _certainty_ would, long ere       this, have caused them temporarily to subside into their       accustomed channels.
You understand little of the human       heart, if you cannot conceive this--"Where the imagination       is vivid, the feelings strong, the views and desires not       bounded by common rules;--in such minds, passions, if not       subdued, become ungovernable and fatal: where there is much       warmth, much enthusiasm, there is much danger.--My mind is       no less ardent than yours, though education and habit may       have given it a different turn--it glows with equal zeal to       attain its end.
"[11] Yes, I must continue to repeat, there       has been in your conduct _one grand mistake_; and the train       of consequences which may, yet, ensue, are uncertain, and       threatening.--But, I mean no reproach--we are all liable to       errors; and my own, I feel, are many, and various.
But to       return--

[Footnote 11: Holcraft's Anna St Ives.]
'You may suppose I have revolved, in my thoughts, every       possible difficulty on the subject alluded to; balancing       their degrees of probability and force:--and, I will frankly       confess, such is the sanguine ardour of my temper, that I       can conceive but one obstacle, that would be _absolutely       invincible_; which is, supposing that you have already       contracted a _legal, irrecoverable_, engagement.
Yet, this I       do not suppose.
I will arrange, under five heads, (on all       occasions, I love to class and methodize) every other       possible species of objection, and subjoin all the       reasonings which have occurred to me on the subjects.
'And, first, I will imagine, as the most serious and       threatening difficulty, that you love another.
I would,       then, ask--Is she capable of estimating your worth--does she       love you--has she the magnanimity to tell you so--would she       sacrifice to that affection every meaner consideration--has       she the merit to secure, as well as accomplishments to       attract, your regard?--You are too well acquainted with the       human heart, not to be aware, that what is commonly called       love is of a fleeting nature, kept alive only by hopes and       fears, if the qualities upon which it is founded afford no       basis for its subsiding into tender confidence, and rational       esteem.
Beauty may inspire a transient desire, vivacity       amuse, for a time, by its sportive graces; but the first       will quickly fade and grow familiar--the last degenerate       into impertinence and insipidity.
Interrogate your own       heart--Would you not, when the ardour of the passions, and       the fervor of the imagination, subsided, wish to find the       sensible, intelligent, friend, take place of the engaging       mistress?--Would you not expect the economical manager of       your affairs, the rational and judicious mother to your       offspring, the faithful sharer of your cares, the firm       friend to your interest, the tender consoler of your       sorrows, the companion in whom you could wholly confide, the       discerning participator of your nobler pursuits, the friend       of your virtues, your talents, your reputation--who could       understand you, who was formed to pass the ordeal of honour,       virtue, friendship?--Ask yourself these questions--ask them       closely, without sophistry, and without evasion.
You are       not, now, an infatuated boy!
Supposing, then, that you are,       at present, entangled in an engagement which answers not       this description--Is it virtue to fulfil, or to renounce,       it?
Contrast it with my affection, with its probable       consequences, and weigh our different claims!
_Would you       have been the selected choice, of this woman, from all       mankind_--would no other be capable of making her equally       happy--would nothing compensate to her for your loss--are       you the only object that she beholds in creation--might not       another engagement suit her equally well, or better--is her       whole soul absorbed but by one sentiment, that of fervent       love for you--is her future usefulness, as well as peace, at       stake--does she understand your high qualities better than       myself--will she emulate them more?--Does the engagement       promise a favourable issue, or does it threaten to wear       away the best period of life in protracted and uncertain       feeling--_the most pernicious, and destructive, of all state       of mind?_ Remember, also, that the summer of life will       quickly fade; and that he who has reached the summit of the       hill, has no time to lose--if he seize not the present       moment, age is approaching, and life melting fast away.--I       quit this, to state my second hypothesis--

'That you esteem and respect me, but that your heart has       hitherto refused the sympathies I have sought to awaken       in it.
If this be the case, it remains to search for the       reason; and, I own, I am at a loss to find it, either in       moral, or physical, causes.
Our principles are in unison,       our tastes and habits not dissimilar, our knowledge of, and       confidence in, each other's virtues is reciprocal, tried,       and established--our ages, personal accomplishments, and       mental acquirements do not materially differ.
From such an       union, I conceive, mutual advantages would result.
I have       found myself distinguished, esteemed, beloved by, others,       where I have not sought for this distinction.
How, then, can       I believe it compatible with the nature of mind, that so       many strong efforts, and reiterated impressions, can have       produced no effect upon yours?
Is your heart constituted       differently from every other human heart?--I have lately       observed an inequality in your behaviour, that has whispered       something flattering to my heart.
Examine yourself--Have you       felt no peculiar interest in what concerns me--would the       idea of our separation affect you with no more than a slight       and common emotion?--One more question propose to yourself,       as a test--Could you see me form a new, and more fortunate,       attachment, with indifference?
If you cannot, without       hesitation, answer these questions, I have still a powerful       pleader in your bosom, though unconscious of it yourself,       that will, ultimately, prevail.
If I have, yet, failed of       producing an unequivocal effect, it must arise from having       mistaken the _means_ proper to produce the desired _end_.
My own sensibility, and my imperfect knowledge of your       character may, here, have combined to mislead me.
The first,       by its suffocating and depressing powers, clouding my       vivacity, incapacitating me from appearing to you with       my natural advantages--these effects would diminish as       assurance took the place of doubt.
The last, every day would       contribute to correct.
Permit me, then, _to hope for_, as       well as to seek your affections, and if I do not, at length,       gain and secure them, it will be a phenomenon in the history       of mind!
'But to proceed to my third supposition--The peculiar,       pecuniary, embarrassments of your situation--Good God!
did this barbarous, insidious, relation, allow himself       to consider the pernicious consequences of his absurd       bequest?--threatening to undermine every manly principle, to       blast every social virtue?
Oh!
that I had the eloquence to       rouse you from this tame and unworthy acquiescence--to       stimulate you to exercise your talents, to trust to the       independent energies of your mind, to exert yourself to       procure the honest rewards of virtuous industry.
In       proportion as we lean for support on foreign aid, we lose       the dignity of our nature, and palsey those powers which       constitute that nature's worth.
Yet, I will allow, from my       knowledge of your habits and associations, this obstacle its       full force.
But there remains one method of obviating, even       this!
I will frankly confess, that could I hope to gain       the interest in your heart, which I have so long and       so earnestly sought--my confidence in your honour and       integrity, my tenderness for you, added to the wish of       contributing to your happiness, would effect, what no lesser       considerations could have effected--would triumph, not over       my principles, (_for the individuality of an affection       constitutes its chastity_) but over my prudence.
I repeat, I       am willing to sacrifice every inferior consideration--retain       your legacy, so capriciously bequeathed--retain your present       situation, and I will retain mine.
This proposition, though       not a violation of modesty, certainly involves in it very       serious hazards--_It is, wholly, the triumph of affection!_       You cannot suppose, that a transient engagement would       satisfy a mind like mine; I should require a reciprocal       faith plighted and returned--an after separation, otherwise       than by mutual consent, would be my destruction--I should       not survive your desertion.
My existence, then, would be in       your hands.
Yet, having once confided, your affection should       be my recompence--my sacrifice should be a cheerful and a       voluntary one; I would determine not to harrass you with       doubts nor jealousies, I would neither reflect upon the       past, nor distrust the future: I would rest upon you, I       would confide in you fearlessly and entirely!
but, though I       would not enquire after the past, my delicacy would require       the assurance of your present, undivided, affection.
'The fourth idea that has occurred to me, is the probability       of your having formed a plan of seeking some agreeable woman       of fortune, who should be willing to reward a man of merit       for the injustice of society.
Whether you may already have       experienced some disappointments of this nature, I will not       pretend to determine.
I can conceive, that, by many women,       a coxcomb might be preferred to you--however this may be,       the plan is not unattended with risque, nor with some       possible degrading circumstances--and you may succeed, and       yet be miserable: happiness depends not upon the abundance       of our possessions.
'The last case which I shall state, and on which I shall       lay little comparative stress, is the possibility of an       engagement of a very inferior nature--a mere affair of the       senses.
The arguments which might here be adduced are too       obvious to be repeated.
Besides, I think highly of your       refinement and delicacy--Having therefore just hinted, I       leave it with you.
'And now to conclude--After considering all I have urged,       you may, perhaps, reply--That the subject is too nice and       too subtle for reasoning, and that the heart is not to       be compelled.
These, I think, are mistakes.
There is no       subject, in fact, that may not be subjected to the laws       of investigation and reasoning.
What is it that we       desire--_pleasure_--_happiness_?
I allow, pleasure is the       supreme good: but it may be analyzed--it must have a stable       foundation--to this analysis I now call you!
This is       the critical moment, upon which hangs a long chain of       events--This moment may decide your future destiny and       mine--it may, even, affect that of unborn myriads!
My spirit       is pervaded with these important ideas--my heart flutters--I       breathe with difficulty--_My friend_--_I would give myself       to you_--the gift is not worthless.
Pause a moment, ere you       rudely throw from you an affection so tried, so respectable,       so worthy of you!
The heart may be compelled--compelled       by the touching sympathies which bind, with sacred,       indissoluble ties, mind to mind!
Do not prepare for yourself       future remorse--when lost, you may recollect my worth, and       my affection, and remember them with regret--Yet mistake me       not, I have no intention to intimidate--I think it my duty       to live, while I may possibly be useful to others, however       bitter and oppressive may be that existence.
I will live       _for duty_, though peace and enjoyment should be for ever       fled.
You may rob me of my happiness, you may rob me of my       strength, but, even, you cannot destroy my principles.
And,       if no other motive with-held me from rash determinations, my       tenderness for you (it is not a selfish tenderness), would       prevent me from adding, to the anxieties I have already       given you, the cruel pang, of feeling yourself the occasion,       however unintentionally, of the destruction of a fellow       creature.
'While I await your answer, I summon to my heart all its       remaining strength and spirits.
Say to me, in clear and       decisive terms, that the obstacles which oppose my affection       _are absolutely, and altogether, insuperable_--Or that       there is a possibility of their removal, but that time and       patience are, yet, necessary to determine their force.
In       this case, I will not disturb the future operations of your       mind, assuring myself, that you will continue my suspence no       longer than is proper and requisite--or frankly accept, and       return, the faith of her to whom you are infinitely dearer       than life itself!
'Early to-morrow morning, a messenger shall call for the       paper, which is to decide the colour of my future destiny.
Every moment, that the blow has been suspended, it has       acquired additional force--since it must, at length,       descend, it would be weakness still to desire its       protraction--We have, already, refined too much--_I promise       to live--more, alas!
I cannot promise_.
'_Farewel!_ dearest and most beloved of men--whatever may be       my fate--_be happiness yours!_ Once more, my lingering,       foreboding heart, repeats _farewel!_

'EMMA.'
It would be unnecessary to paint my feelings during the interval in which I waited a reply to this letter--I struggled to repress hope, and to prepare my mind for the dissolution of a thousand air-built fabrics.
The day wore tediously away in strong emotion, and strong exertion.
On the subsequent morning, I sat, waiting the return of my messenger, in a state of mind, difficult even to be conceived--I heard him enter--breathless, I flew to meet him--I held out my hand--I could not speak.
'Mr Harley desired me to tell you, _he had not had time to write_.'
Gracious God!
I shudder, even now, to recall the convulsive sensation!
I sunk into a chair--I sat for some time motionless, every faculty seemed suspended.
At length, returning to recollection, I wrote a short incoherent note, entreating--

'To be spared another day, another night, like the preceding--I asked only _one single line_!
In the morning I had made up my mind to fortitude--it was now sinking--another day, I could not answer for the consequences.'
Again an interval of suspense--again my messenger returned with a verbal reply--'_He would write to-morrow._' Unconsciously, I exclaimed--'_Barbarous, unfeeling, unpitying, man!_' A burst of tears relieved--no--_it did not relieve me_.
The day passed--I know not how--I dare not recollect.
The next morning, I arose, somewhat refreshed; my exhausted strength and spirits had procured me a few hours of profound slumber.
A degree of resentment gave a temporary firmness to my nerves.
'What happiness (I repeated to myself) could I have expected with a man, thus regardless of my feelings?'
I composed my spirits--_hope was at an end_--into a sort of sullen resignation to my fate--a half stupor!
At noon the letter arrived, coldly, confusedly written; methought there appeared even a degree of irritation in it.
'_Another, a prior attachment_--His behaviour had been such, as necessarily resulted from such an engagement--unavoidable circumstances had prevented an earlier reply.'
My swollen heart--but it is enough--'He blamed my impatience--he would, in future, perhaps, when my mind had attained more composure, make some remarks on my letter.'
CHAPTER VIII

To write had always afforded a temporary relief to my spirits--The next day I resumed my pen.
TO AUGUSTUS HARLEY.
'If, after reflecting upon, and comparing, many parts of       your past conduct, you can acquit yourself, at the sacred       bar of humanity--it is well!
How often have I called       for--urged, with all the energy of truth and feeling--but in       vain--such a letter as you have at length written--and,       _even now_, though somewhat late, I thank you for it.
Yet,       what could have been easier, than to repeat so plain and so       simple a tale?
The vague hints, you had before given, I had       repeatedly declared to be insufficient.
Remember, all my       earnestness, and all my simplicity, and _learn the value of       sincerity_!
"Oh!
with what difficulty is an active mind,       once forced into any particular train, persuaded to desert       it as hopeless!
"[12]

[Footnote 12: Godwin's Caleb Williams.]
'This recital, then, was not to be confirmed, till the whole       moral conformation of my mind was affected--till the barbed       arrow had fixed, and rankled in, and poisoned, with its       envenomed point, every vein, every fibre, of my heart.
This,       I confess, is now the case--Reason and self-respect sustain       me--but the wound you have inflicted _is indelible_--it will       continue to be the corroding canker at the root of my peace.
My youth has been worn in anguish--and the summer of life       will probably be overshadowed by a still thicker and darker       cloud.
But I mean not to reproach you--it is not given me to       contribute to your happiness--the dearest and most ardent       wish of my soul--I would not then inflict unnecessary       pain--yet, I would fix upon your mind, the value of       _unequivocal sincerity_.
'Had the happiness of any human being, the meanest, the       vilest, depended as much upon me, as mine has done on you, I       would have sacrificed, for their relief, the dearest secret       of my heart--the secret, even upon which my very existence       had depended.
It is true, you did not directly deceive       me--but is that enough for the delicacy of humanity?
May the       past be an affecting lesson to us both--it is written upon       my mind in characters of blood.
I feel, and acknowledge, my       own errors, in yielding to the illusion of vague, visionary,       expectation; but my faults have originated in a generous       source--they have been the wild, ardent, fervent, excesses,       of a vigorous and an exalted mind!
'I checked my tears, as they flowed, and they are already       dried--uncalled, unwished, for--why do they, thus, struggle       to force their way?
my mind has, I hope, too much energy,       utterly to sink--I know what it is to suffer, and to combat       with, if not to subdue, my feelings--and _certainty_,       itself, is some relief.
I am, also, supported by the       retrospect of my conduct; with all its mistakes, and all its       extravagances, it has been that of a virtuous, ingenuous,       uncorrupted, mind.
You have contemned a heart of no common       value, you have sported with its exquisite sensibilities--but       it will, still, know how to separate your virtues from       your errors.
'You reprove, perhaps justly, my impatience--I can only say,       that circumstanced as you were, I should have stolen an hour       from rest, from company, from business, however, important,       to have relieved and soothed a fellow-creature in a       situation, so full of pain and peril.
Every thought, during       a day scarcely to be recollected without agony, _was a       two-edged sword_--but some hours of profound and refreshing       slumber recruited my exhausted spirits, and enabled me,       yesterday, to receive my fate, with a fortitude but little       hoped for.
'You would oblige me exceedingly by the remarks you allow me       to hope for, on my letter of the ----th.
You know, I will       not shrink from reproof--that letter afforded you the last       proof of my affection, and I repent not of it.
I loved you,       first, for what, I conceived, high qualities of mind--from       nature and association, my tenderness became personal--till       at length, I loved you, not only rationally and       tenderly--_but passionately_--it became a pervading and a       devouring fire!
And, yet, I do not blush--my affection       was modest, if intemperate, _for it was individual_--it       annihilated in my eyes every other man in the creation.
I       regret these natural sensations and affections, their       forcible suppression injures the mind--it converts the mild       current of gentle, and genial sympathies, into a destructive       torrent.
This, I have the courage to avow it, has been one       of the miserable mistakes in morals, and, like all other       partial remedies, has increased the evil, it was intended       to correct.
From monastic institutions and principles have       flowed, as from a polluted source, streams, that have       at once spread through society a mingled contagion of       dissoluteness and hypocrisy.
'You have suddenly arrested my affections in their full       career--in all their glowing effervescence--you have taken

"The rose         From the fair forehead of an innocent love,         And placed a blister there."
'And, yet, I survive the shock, and determine to live, not       for future enjoyment--that is now, for ever, past--_but for       future usefulness_--Is not this virtue?
'I am sorry your attachment has been and I fear is likely       to be, protracted--I know, too well, the misery of       these situations, and I should, now, feel a melancholy       satisfaction in hearing of its completion--In that       completion, may you experience no disappointment!
I do not       wish you to be beloved, as I have loved you; this, perhaps,       is unnecessary; such an affection, infallibly, enslaves the       heart that cherishes it; and slavery is the tomb of virtue       and of peace.
'I believe it would not be proper for us to meet again--at       least at present--should I hear of sickness, or calamity,       befalling you, I shall, I suspect, be impelled, by an       irresistible impulse to seek you--but I will no more       interrupt your repose--Though you have contemned my       affection, my friendship will still follow you.
'If you really _love_, I think you ought to make some       sacrifices, and not render yourself, and the happy       object of your tenderness, the victims of factitious       notions.--Remember--youth and life will quickly       fade.
Relinquish, call upon her to relinquish, her       prejudices--should she refuse, she is unworthy of you, and       you will regret, too late, the tender, faithful, ingenuous       heart, that you have pierced through and through--_that       you have almost broken_!
Should she make you happy, I will       esteem, though I may never have an opportunity of thanking,       her--Were she informed of my conduct, she might rejoice in       the trial of your affection--though I should not.
'The spirits, that had crouded round my heart, are already       subsiding--a flood of softness, a tide of overwhelming       affection, gushes upon it--and I feel sinking into helpless,       infantine, distress!
Hasten to me your promised remarks--they       will rouse, they will strengthen, me--_Truth_ I will never       call indelicate or inhuman--it is only the virtuous mind       can dare to practise, to challenge, it:--simplicity is true       refinement.
'Let us reap from the past all the good we can--a close, and       searching, knowledge of the secret springs and foldings of       our hearts.
Methinks, I could wish you justified, _even at       my own expence_.--I ask, unshrinkingly, a frank return.
'A heart-rending sigh accompanies my _farewel_--the last       struggles of expiring nature will be far less painful--but       my philosophy, now, _sternly_ calls upon me to put its       precepts in practice--trembling--shuddering--I obey!
'_Farewel!_                                                          'EMMA.'
Perhaps it cost me some effort to make the preceding letter so moderate--yet, every victory gained over ourselves is attended with advantages.
But this apparent calm was the lethargy of despair--it was succeeded by severer conflicts, by keener anguish.
A week passed, and near a second--I received no answer.
CHAPTER IX

A letter from the country made it necessary for me, again, to address Mr Harley, to make some enquiries which respected business of his mother's.
It may be, that I felt a mixture of other motives;--it is certain, that when I wrote, I spoke of more than business.
'I had hoped,' I told him, 'ere this, to have received the       promised letter--Yet, I do not take up my pen,' said I,       'either to complain of, or to importune, you.
If I have       already expressed myself with bitterness, let the harrassed       state of my mind be my excuse.
My own conduct has been too       erroneous, too eccentric, to enable me to judge impartially       of your's.
Forgive me, if by placing you in an embarrassing       situation, I have exposed you to consequent mistake or       uneasiness.
I feel, that whatever errors we may either of       us have committed, _originated only with myself_, and I am       content to suffer all the consequences.
It is true, had you       reposed in me an early, generous, confidence, much misery       would have been avoided--I had not been wounded

"There, where the human heart most exquisitely            feels!"
'You had been still my friend, and I had been comparatively       happy.
Every passion is, in a great measure, the growth of       indulgence: all our desires are, in their commencement,       easily suppressed, when there appears no probability of       attaining their object; but when strengthened, by time and       reflection, into habit, in endeavouring to eradicate them,       we tear away part of the mind.
In my attachments there is a       kind of savage tenacity--they are of an elastic nature,       and, being forced back, return with additional violence.
'My affection for you has not been, altogether, irrational       or selfish.
While I felt that I loved you, as no other       woman, I was convinced, would love you--I conceived, could I       once engage your heart, I could satisfy, and even, purify       it.
While I loved your virtues, I thought I saw, and I       lamented, the foibles which sullied them.
I suspected you,       perhaps erroneously, of pride, ambition, the love of       distinction; yet your ambition could not, I thought, be of       an ignoble nature--I feared that the gratifications you       sought, if, indeed, attainable, were factitious--I even       fancied I perceived you, against your better judgment,       labouring to seduce yourself!'
"He is under a delusion,"       said I, to myself;--"reason may be stunned, or blinded, for       awhile; but it will revive in the heart, and do its office,       when sophistry will be of no avail."
I saw you struggling       with vexations, that I was assured might be meliorated by       tender confidence--I longed to pour its balms into your       bosom.
My sensibility disquieted you, and myself, only       _because it was constrained_.
I thought I perceived a       conflict in your mind--I watched its progress with attention       and solicitude.
A thousand times has my fluttering heart       yearned to break the cruel chains that fettered it, and to       chase the cloud, which stole over your brow, by the tender,       yet chaste, caresses and endearments of ineffable affection!
My feelings became too highly wrought, and altogether       insupportable.
Sympathy for your situation, zeal for your       virtues, love for your mind, tenderness for your person--a       complication of generous, affecting, exquisite, emotions,       impelled me to make one great effort.--"[13] The world might       call my plans absurd, my views romantic, my pretensions       extravagant--Was I, or was I not, guilty of any crime, when,       in the very acme of the passions, I so totally disregarded       the customs of the world?"
Ah!
what were my sensations--what       did I not suffer, in the interval?--and you prolonged that       cruel interval--and still you suffer me to doubt, whether,       at the moment in my life when I was actuated by the highest,       the most fervent, the most magnanimous, principles--whether,       at that moment, when I most deserved your respect, I did not       for ever forfeit it.
[Footnote 13: Holcroft's Anna St Ives.]
'I seek not to extenuate any part of my conduct--I confess       that it has been wild, extravagant, romantic--I confess,       that, even for your errors, I am justly blameable--and yet       I am unable to bear, because I feel they would be unjust,       your hatred and contempt.
I cherish no resentment--my spirit       is subdued and broken--your unkindness sinks into my soul.
'EMMA.'
Another fortnight wore away in fruitless expectation--the morning rose, the evening closed, upon me, in sadness.
I could not, yet, think the mystery developed: on a concentrated view of the circumstances, they appeared to me contradictory, and irreconcileable.
A solitary enthusiast, a child in the drama of the world, I had yet to learn, that those who have courage to act upon advanced principles, must be content to suffer moral martyrdom.
[14] In subduing our own prejudices, we have done little, while assailed on every side by the prejudices of others.
My own heart acquitted me; but I dreaded that distortion of mind, that should wrest guilt out of the most sublime of its emanations.
[Footnote 14: This sentiment may be just in some particular       cases, but it is by no means of general application, and       must be understood with great limitations.]
I ruminated in gloomy silence, on my forlorn, and hopeless, situation.
'If there be not a future state of being,' said I to myself, 'what is this!--Tortured in every stage of it, "Man cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down--he fleeth, as a shadow, and continueth not!"
--I looked backward on my past life, and my heart sickened--its confidence in humanity was shaken--I looked forward, and all was cheerless.
I had certainly committed many errors!--Who has not--who, with a fancy as lively, feelings as acute, and a character as sanguine, as mine?
"What, in fact," says a philosophic writer,[15] "is character?--the production of a lively and constant affection, and consequently, of a strong passion:"--eradicate that passion, that ferment, that leaven, that exuberance, which raises and makes the mind what it is, and what remains?
Yet, let us beware how we wantonly expend this divine, this invigorating, power.
Every grand error, in a mind of energy, in its operations and consequences, carries us years forward--_precious years, never to be recalled_!'
I could find no substitute for the sentiments I regretted--for that sentiment formed my character; and, but for the obstacles which gave it force, though I might have suffered less misery, I should, I suspect, have gained less improvement; still adversity _is a real evil_; and I foreboded that this improvement had been purchased too dear.
[Footnote 15: Helvetius.]
CHAPTER X

Weeks elapsed ere the promised letter arrived--a letter still colder, and more severe, than the former.
I wept over it, bitter tears!
It accused me 'of adding to the vexations of a situation, before sufficiency oppressive.'--Alas!
had I known the nature of those vexations, could I have merited such a reproof?
The Augustus, I had so long and so tenderly loved, no longer seemed to exist.
Some one had, surely, usurped his signature, and imitated those characters, I had been accustomed to trace with delight.
He tore himself from me, _nor would he deign to soften the pang of separation_.
Anguish overwhelmed me--my heart was pierced.
Reclining my head on my folded arms, I yielded myself up to silent grief.
Alone, sad, desolate, no one heeded my sorrows--no eye pitied me--no friendly voice cheered my wounded spirit!
The social propensities of a mind forbidden to expand itself, forced back, preyed incessantly upon that mind, secretly consuming its powers.
I was one day roused from these melancholy reflections by the entrance of my cousin, Mrs Denbeigh.
She held in her hand a letter, from my only remaining friend, Mrs Harley.
I snatched it hastily; my heart, lacerated by the seeming unkindness of him in whom it had confided, yearned to imbibe the consolation, which the gentle tenderness of this dear, maternal, friend, had never failed to administer.
The first paragraph informed me--

'That she had, a few days since, received a letter from the       person to whom the legacy of her son devolved, should he       fail in observing the prescribed conditions of the testator:       that this letter gave her notice, that those conditions had       already been infringed, Mr Harley having contracted a       marriage, three years before, with a foreigner, with whom       he had become acquainted during his travels; that this       marriage had been kept a secret, and, but very lately, by an       accidental concurrence of circumstances, revealed to the       person most concerned in the detection.
Undoubted proofs of       the truth of this information could be produced; it would       therefore be most prudent in her son to resign his claims,       without putting himself, and the legal heir, to unnecessary       expence and litigation.
Ignorant of the residence of Mr       Harley, the writer troubled his mother to convey to him       these particulars.'
The paper dropped from my hand, the colour forsook my lips and cheeks;--yet I neither wept, nor fainted.
Mrs Denbeigh took my hands--they were frozen--the blood seemed congealed in my veins--and I sat motionless--my faculties suspended, stunned, locked up!
My friend spake to me--embraced, shed tears over, me--but she could not excite mine;--my mind was pervaded by a sense of confused misery.
I remained many days in this situation--it was a state, of which I have but a feeble remembrance; and I, at length, awoke from it, as from a troublesome dream.
With returning reason, the tide of recollection also returned.
Oh!
how complicated appeared to me the guilt of Augustus!
Ignorant of his situation, I had been unconsciously, and perseveringly, exerting myself to seduce the affections of a _husband_ from his _wife_.
He had made me almost criminal in my own eyes--he had risqued, at once, by a disingenuous and cruel reserve, the virtue and the happiness of three beings.
What is virtue, but a calculation of _the consequences of our actions_?
Did we allow ourselves to reason on this principle, to reflect on its truth and importance, we should be compelled to shudder at many parts of our conduct, which, _taken unconnectedly_, we have habituated ourselves to consider as almost indifferent.
Virtue can exist only in a mind capable of taking comprehensive views.
How criminal, then, is ignorance!
During this sickness of the soul, Mr Francis, who had occasionally visited me since my residence in town, called, repeatedly, to enquire after my welfare; expressing a friendly concern for my indisposition.
I saw him not--I was incapable of seeing any one--but, informed by my kind hostess of his humane attentions, soothed by the idea of having yet a friend who seemed to interest himself in my concerns, I once more had recourse to my pen (Mrs Denbeigh having officiously placed the implements of writing in my way), and addressed him in the wild and incoherent language of despair.
TO MR FRANCIS.
'You once told me, that I was incapable of heroism; and you       were right--yet, I am called to great exertions!
a blow that       has been suspended over my head, days, weeks, months, years,       has at length fallen--still I live!
My tears flow--I       struggle, in vain, to suppress them, but they are not tears       of blood!--My heart, though pierced through and through, is       not broken!
'My friend, come and teach me how to acquire fortitude--I       am wearied with misery--All nature is to me a blank--an       envenomed shaft rankles in my bosom--philosophy will not       heal the festering wound--_I am exquisitely wretched!_

'Do not chide me till I get more strength--I speak to you of       my sorrows, for your kindness, while I was yet a stranger to       you, inspired me with confidence, and my desolate heart       looks round for support.
'I am indebted to you--how shall I repay your goodness?
Do       you, indeed, interest yourself in my fate?
Call upon me,       then, for the few incidents of my life--I will relate them       simply, and without disguise.
There is nothing uncommon in       them, but the effect which they have produced upon my       mind--yet, that mind they formed.
'After all, my friend, what a wretched farce is life!
Why       cannot I sleep, and, close my eyes upon it for ever?
But       something whispers, "_this would be wrong_."
--How shall       I tear from my heart all its darling, close twisted,       associations?--And must I live--_live for what?_ God only       knows!
Yet, how am I sure that there is a God--is he       wise--is he powerful--is he benevolent?
If he be, can       he sport himself in the miseries of poor, feeble,       impotent, beings, forced into existence, without their       choice--impelled, by the iron hand of necessity, through       mistake, into calamity?--Ah!
my friend, who will condemn the       poor solitary wanderer, whose feet are pierced with many a       thorn, should he turn suddenly out of the rugged path, seek       an obscure shade to shrowd his wounds, his sorrows, and       his indignation, from the scorn of a pitiless world, and       accelerate the hour of repose.
[16] Who would be born if they       could help it?
You would perhaps--_you may do good_--But on       me, the sun shines only to mock my woes--Oh!
that I had       never seen the light.
[Footnote 16: This is the reasoning of a mind distorted by       passion.
Even in the moment of disappointment, our heroine       judged better.
See page 38.]
'Torn by conflicting passions--wasted in anguish--life is       melting fast away--A burthen to myself, a grief to those       who love me, and worthless to every one.
Weakened by long       suspence--preyed upon, by a combination of imperious       feelings--I fear, I greatly fear, the _irrecoverable blow       is struck_!
But I blame no one--I have been entangled in       error--_who is faultless?_

'While pouring itself out on paper, my tortured mind has       experienced a momentary relief: If your heart be inaccessible       to tender sympathies, I have only been adding one more to my       numberless mistakes!
'EMMA.'
Mr Francis visited me, and evinced for my situation the most humane and delicate consideration.
He reminded me of the offer I had made him, and requested the performance of my engagement.
In compliance with this request, and to beguile my melancholy thoughts, I drew up a sketch of the events of my past life, and unfolded a history of the sentiments of my mind (from which I have extracted the preceding materials) reserving only any circumstance which might lead to a detection of the name and family of the man with whom they were so intimately blended.
CHAPTER XI

After having perused my manuscript, Mr Francis returned it, at my desire, accompanied by the following letter.
TO EMMA COURTNEY.
'Your narrative leaves me full of admiration for your       qualities, and compassion for your insanity.
'I entreat however your attention to the following passage,       extracted from your papers.
"After considering all I have       urged, you may perhaps reply, that the subject is too nice,       and too subtle, for reasoning, and that the heart is not       to be compelled.
This, I think, is a mistake.
There is no       topic, in fact, that may not be subjected to the laws of       investigation and reasoning.
What is it we desire?
pleasure,       happiness.
What!
the pleasure of an instant, only; or that       which is more solid and permanent?
I allow, pleasure is the       supreme good!
but it may be analysed.
To this analysis I now       call you."
'Could I, if I had studied for years, invent a comment on       your story, more salutary to your sorrows, more immoveable       in its foundation, more clearly expressed, or more       irresistibly convincing to every rational mind?
'How few real, substantial, misfortunes there are in the       world!
how few calamities, the sting of which does not       depend upon our cherishing the viper in our bosom, and       applying the aspic to our veins!
The general pursuit of all       men, we are frequently told, is happiness.
I have often been       tempted to think, on the contrary, that the general pursuit       is misery.
It is true, men do not recognize it by its       genuine appellation; they content themselves with the       pitiful expedient of assigning it a new denomination.
But,       if their professed purpose were misery, could they be more       skilful and ingenious in the pursuit?
'Look through your whole life.
To speak from your own       description, was there ever a life, in its present period,       less chequered with substantial _bona fide_ misfortune?
The       whole force of every thing which looks like a misfortune       was assiduously, unintermittedly, provided by yourself.
You       nursed in yourself a passion, which, taken in the degree       in which you experienced it, is the unnatural and odious       invention of a distempered civilization, and which in       almost all instances generates an immense overbalance of       excruciating misery.
Your conduct will scarcely admit of any       other denomination than moon-struck madness, hunting after       torture.
You addressed a man impenetrable as a rock, and       the smallest glimpse of sober reflection, and common sense,       would have taught you instantly to have given up the       pursuit.
'I know you will tell me, and you will tell yourself, a       great deal about constitution, early association, and the       indissoluble chain of habits and sentiments.
But I answer       with small fear of being erroneous, "It is a mistake to       suppose, that the heart is not to be compelled.
There is no       topic, in fact, that may not be subjected to the laws of       investigation and reasoning.
Pleasure, happiness, is the       supreme good; and happiness is susceptible of being       analysed."
I grant, that the state of a human mind cannot be       changed at once; but, had you worshipped at the altar of       reason but half as assiduously as you have sacrificed at       the shrine of illusion, your present happiness would have       been as enviable, as your present distress is worthy of       compassion.
If men would but take the trouble to ask       themselves, once every day, Why should I be miserable?
how       many, to whom life is a burthen, would become chearful and       contented.
'Make a catalogue of all the real evils of human life;       bodily pain, compulsory solitude, severe corporal labour,       in a word, all those causes which deprive us of health, or       the means of spending our time in animated, various, and       rational pursuits.
Aye, these are real evils!
But I should       be ashamed of putting disappointed love into my enumeration.
Evils of this sort are the brood of folly begotten upon       fastidious indolence.
They shrink into non-entity, when       touched by the wand of truth.
'The first lesson of enlightened reason, the great fountain       of heroism and virtue, the principle by which alone man can       become what man is capable of being, is _independence_.
May       every power that is favourable to integrity, to honour,       defend me from leaning upon another for support!
I will use       the word, I will use my fellow men, but I will not abuse       these invaluable benefits of the system of nature.
I will       not be weak and criminal enough, to make my peace depend       upon the precarious thread of another's life or another's       pleasure.
I will judge for myself; I will draw my support       from myself--the support of my existence and the support       of my happiness.
The system of nature has perhaps made me       dependent for the means of existence and happiness upon my       fellow men taken collectively; but nothing but my own       folly can make me dependent upon individuals.
Will these       principles prevent me from admiring, esteeming, and loving       such as are worthy to excite these emotions?
Can I not have       a mind to understand, and a heart to feel excellence,       without first parting with the fairest attribute of my       nature?
'You boast of your sincerity and frankness.
You have       doubtless some reason for your boast--Yet all your       misfortunes seem to have arisen from concealment.
You       brooded over your emotions, and considered them as a sacred       deposit--You have written to me, I have seen you frequently,       during the whole of this transaction, without ever having       received the slightest hint of it, yet, if I be a fit       counsellor now, I was a fit counsellor then; your folly was       so gross, that, if it had been exposed to the light of day,       it could not have subsisted for a moment.
Even now you       suppress the name of your hero: yet, unless I know how much       of a hero and a model of excellence he would appear in my       eyes, I can be but a very imperfect judge of the affair.

'
---- FRANCIS.'
CHAPTER XII

To the remonstrance of my friend, which roused me from the languor into which I was sinking, I immediately replied--

TO MR FRANCIS.
'You retort upon me my own arguments, and you have cause.
I       felt a ray of conviction dart upon my mind, even, while I       wrote them.
But what then?--"I seemed to be in a state, in       which reason had no power; I felt as if I could coolly       survey the several arguments of the case--perceive, that       they had prudence, truth, and common sense on their       side--And then answer--I am under the guidance of a director       more energetic than you!
"[17] I am affected by your       kindness--I am affected by your letter.
I could weep over       it, bitter tears of conviction and remorse.
But argue with       the wretch infected with the plague--will it stop the tide       of blood, that is rapidly carrying its contagion to the       heart?
I blush!
I shed burning tears!
But I am still       desolate and wretched!
And how am I to stop it?
The force       which you impute to my reasoning was the powerful frenzy of       a high delirium.
[Footnote 17: Godwin's Caleb Williams.]
'What does it signify whether, abstractedly considered, a       misfortune be worthy of the names real and substantial, if       the consequences produced are the same?
That which embitters       all my life, that which stops the genial current of health       and peace is, whatever be its nature, a real calamity to me.
There is no end to this reasoning--what individual can limit       the desires of another?
The necessaries of the civilized man       are whimsical superfluities in the eye of the savage.
Are       we, or are we not (as you have taught me) the creatures of       sensation and circumstance?
'I agree with you--and the more I look into society, the       deeper I feel the soul-sickening conviction--"The general       pursuit is misery"--necessarily--excruciating misery, from       the source to which you justly ascribe it--"_The unnatural       and odious inventions of a distempered civilization._" I am       content, you may perceive, to recognize things by their       genuine appellation.
I am, at least, a reasoning maniac:       perhaps the most dangerous species of insanity.
But while       the source continues troubled, why expect the streams to run       pure?
'You know I will tell you--"about the indissoluble chains of       association and habit:" and you attack me again with my own       weapons!
Alas!
while I confess their impotence, with what       consistency do I accuse the flinty, impenetrable, heart, I       so earnestly sought, in vain, to move?
What materials does       this stubborn mechanism of the mind offer to the wise and       benevolent legislator!
'Had I, you tell me, "worshipped at the altar of reason, but       half as assiduously as I have sacrificed at the shrine of       illusion, my happiness might have been enviable."
But do       you not perceive, that my reason was the auxiliary of my       passion, or rather my passion the generative principle of my       reason?
Had not these contradictions, these oppositions,       roused the energy of my mind, I might have domesticated,       tamely, in the lap of indolence and apathy.
'I do ask myself, every day--"Why should I be  miserable?"
--and       I answer, "Because the strong, predominant, sentiment of my       soul, close twisted with all its cherished associations, has       been rudely torn away, and the blood flows from the lacerated       wound.
You would be ashamed of placing disappointed love in       your enumeration of evils!
Gray was not ashamed of this--

'And pining love shall waste their youth,          And jealousy, with rankling tooth,          That inly gnaws the secret heart!'
*       *       *       *       *

'These shall the stings of falsehood try,          And hard unkindness' alter'd eye,          That mocks the tear it forc'd to flow.'"
'Is it possible that you can be insensible of all the mighty       mischiefs which have been caused by this passion--of the       great events and changes of society, to which it has       operated as a powerful, though secret, spring?
That Jupiter       shrouded his glories beneath a mortal form; that he       descended yet lower, and crawled as a reptile--that Hercules       took the distaff, and Sampson was shorn of his strength, are       in their spirit, no fables.
Yet, these were the legends of       ages less degenerate than this, and states of society less       corrupt.
Ask your own heart--whether some of its most       exquisite sensations have not arisen from sources, which, to       nine-tenths of the world, would be equally inconceivable:       Mine, I believe, is a _solitary madness in the eighteenth       century: it is not on the altars of love, but of gold, that       men, now, come to pay their offerings_.
'Why call woman, miserable, oppressed, and impotent,       woman--_crushed, and then insulted_--why call her to       _independence_--which not nature, but the barbarous and       accursed laws of society, have denied her?
_This is       mockery!_ Even you, wise and benevolent as you are, can mock       the child of slavery and sorrow!
"Excluded, as it were, by       the pride, luxury, and caprice, of the world, from expanding       my sensations, and wedding my soul to society, I was       constrained to bestow the strong affections, that glowed       consciously within me, upon a few.
"[18] Love, in minds of       any elevation, cannot be generated but upon a real, or       fancied, foundation of excellence.
But what would be a       miracle in architecture, is true in morals--the fabric can       exist when the foundation has mouldered away.
_Habit_ daily       produces this wonderful effect upon every feeling, and every       principle.
Is not this the theory which you have taught me?
[Footnote 18: Godwin's Caleb Williams.]
'Am I not sufficiently ingenuous?--I will give you a       new proof of my frankness (though not the proof you       require).--From the miserable consequences of wretched moral       distinctions, from chastity having been considered as a       sexual virtue, all these calamities have flowed.
Men are       thus rendered sordid and dissolute in their pleasures; their       affections vitiated, and their feelings petrified; the       simplicity of modest tenderness loses its charm; they become       incapable of satisfying the heart of a woman of sensibility       and virtue.--Half the sex, then, are the wretched, degraded,       victims of brutal instinct: the remainder, if they sink not       into mere frivolity and insipidity, are sublimed into a       sort of--[what shall I call them?]
--refined, romantic,       factitious, unfortunate, beings; who, for the sake of the       present moment, dare not expose themselves to complicated,       inevitable, evils; evils, that will infallibly overwhelm       them with misery and regret!
Woe be, more especially, to       those who, possessing the dangerous gifts of fancy and       feeling, find it as difficult to discover a substitute for       the object as for the sentiment!
You, who are a philosopher,       will you still controvert the principles founded in truth       and nature?
"Gross as is my folly," (and I do not deny it)       "you may perceive I was not wholly wandering in darkness.
But while the wintry sun of hope illumined the fairy       frost-work with a single, slanting ray--dazzled by the       transient brightness, I dreaded the meridian fervors       that should dissolve the glittering charm."
Yes!
it was       madness--but it was the pleasurable madness which none but       madmen know.
'I cannot answer your question--Pain me not by its       repetition; neither seek to ensnare me to the disclosure.
Unkindly, severely, as I have been treated, I will not       risque, even, the possibility of injuring the man, whom I       have so tenderly loved, in the esteem of any one.
Were I to       name him, you know him not; you could not judge of his       qualities.
He is not "a model of excellence."
I perceive it,       with pain--and if obliged to retract my judgment on some       parts of his character--I retract it with agonizing       reluctance!
But I could trace the sources of his errors, and       candour and self-abasement imperiously compel me to a mild       judgment, to stifle the petulant suggestions of a wounded       spirit.
'Ought not our principles, my friend, to soften the asperity       of our censures?--Could I have won him to my arms, I thought       I could soften, and even elevate, his mind--a mind, in which       I still perceive a great proportion of good.
I weep for him,       as well as for myself.
He will, one day, know my value,       and feel my loss.
Still, I am sensible, that, by my       extravagance, I have given a great deal of vexation       (possibly some degradation), to a being, whom I had no right       to persecute, or to compel to chuse happiness through a       medium of my creation.
I cannot exactly tell the extent of       the injury I may have done him.
A long train of consequences       succeed, even, our most indifferent actions.--Strong       energies, though they answer not the end proposed, must yet       produce correspondent effects.
Morals and mechanics are here       analogous.
No longer, then, distress me by the repetition of       a question I ought not to answer.
I am content to be the       victim--Oh!
may I be the only victim--of my folly!
'One more observation allow me to make, before I conclude.
That we can "admire, esteem, and love," an individual--(for       love in the abstract, loving mankind collectively, conveys       to me no idea)--which must be, in fact, depending upon that       individual for a large share of our felicity, and not lament       his loss, in proportion to our apprehension of his worth,       appears to me a proposition, involving in itself an       absurdity; therefore demonstrably false.
'Let me, my friend, see you ere long--your remonstrance has       affected me--save me from myself!'
TO THE SAME.
[In continuation.]
'My letter having been delayed a few days, through a       mistake--I resume my pen; for, running my eye over what I       had written, I perceive (confounded by the force of your       expressions) I have granted you too much.
My conduct was       not, altogether, so insane as I have been willing to allow.
It is certain, that could I have attained the end proposed,       my happiness had been encreased.
"It is necessary for me to       love and admire, or I sink into sadness."
The behaviour       of the man, whom I sought to move, appeared to me too       inconsistent to be the result of _indifference_.
To be       roused and stimulated by obstacles--obstacles admitting       hope, because obscurely seen--is no mark of weakness.
Could I have subdued, what I, _then_, conceived to be the       _prejudices_ of a worthy man, I could have increased       both his happiness and my own.
I deeply reasoned, and       philosophized, upon the subject.
Perseverance, with little       ability, has effected wonders;--with perseverance, I felt,       that, I had the power of uniting ability--confiding in that       power, I was the dupe of my own reason.
No other man,       perhaps, could have acted the part which this man has       acted:--how, then, was I to take such a part into my       calculations?
'Do not misconceive me--it is no miracle that I did not       inspire affection.
On this subject, the mortification I have       suffered has humbled me, it may be, even, unduly in my own       eyes--but to the emotions of my pride, I would disdain to       give words.
Whatever may have been my feelings, I am too       proud to express the rage of slighted love!--Yet, I am       sensible to all the powers of those charming lines of       Pope--

"Unequal talk, a passion to resign,          For hearts so touch'd, so pierc'd, so lost, as mine!
Ere such a soul regains its peaceful state,          How often must it love, how often hate;          How often hope, despair, resent, regret,          Conceal, disdain, _do all things but forget_!"
'But to return.
I pursued, comparatively, (as I thought) a       certain good; and when, at times, discouraged, I have       repeated to myself--What!
after all these pains, shall I       relinquish my efforts, when, perhaps, on the very verge of       success?--To say nothing of the difficulty of forcing an       active mind out of its trains--if I desisted, what was to be       the result?
The sensations I now feel--apathy, stagnation,       abhorred vacuity!
'You cannot resist the force of my reasoning--you, who are       acquainted with, who know how to paint, in colours true to       nature, the human heart--you, who admire, as a proof of       power, the destructive courage of an Alexander, even the       fanatic fury of a Ravaillac--you, who honour the pernicious       ambition of an Augustus Csar, as bespeaking the potent,       energetic, mind!--why should _you_ affect to be intolerant       to a passion, though differing in nature, generated on the       same principles, and by a parallel process.
The capacity of       perception, or of receiving sensation, is (or generates) the       power; into what channel that power shall be directed,       depends not on ourselves.
Are we not the creatures of       outward impressions?
Without such impressions, should we be       any thing?
Are not passions and powers synonimous--or can       the latter be produced without the lively interest that       constitutes the former?
Do you dream of annihilating the       one--and will not the other be extinguished?
With the       apostle, Paul, permit me to say--"I am not mad, but speak       the words of truth and soberness."
'To what purpose did you read my confessions, but to trace       in them a character formed, like every other human       character, by the result of unavoidable impressions, and the       chain of necessary events.
I feel, that my arguments are       incontrovertible:--I suspect that, by affecting to deny       their force, you will endeavour to deceive either me or       yourself.--I have acquired the power of reasoning on this       subject at a dear rate--at the expence of inconceivable       suffering.
Attempt not to deny me the miserable, expensive,       victory.
I am ready to say--(ungrateful that I am)--Why did       you put me upon calling forth my strong reason?
'I perceive there is no cure for me--(apathy is, not the       restoration to health, but, the morbid lethargy of the soul)       but by a new train of impressions, of whatever nature,       equally forcible with the past.--You will tell me, It       remains with myself whether I will predetermine to resist       such impressions.
Is this true?
Is it philosophical?
Ask       yourself.
What!--can _even you_ shrink from the consequences       of your own principles?
'One word more--You accuse me of brooding in silence over my       sensations--of considering them as a "sacred deposit."
Concealment is particularly repugnant to my disposition--yet       a thousand delicacies--a thousand nameless solicitudes, and       apprehensions, sealed my lips!--He who inspired them was,       alone, the depositary of my most secret thoughts!--my heart       was unreservedly open before him--I covered my paper with       its emotions, and transmitted it to him--like him who       whispered his secret into the earth, to relieve the burden       of uncommunicated thought.
My secret was equally safe, and       received in equal silence!
Alas!
he was not then ignorant of       the effects it was likely to produce!
'EMMA.'
Mr Francis continued his humane and friendly attentions; and, while he opposed my sentiments, as conceiving them destructive of my tranquillity, mingled with his opposition a gentle and delicate consideration for my feelings, that sensibly affected me, and excited my grateful attachment.
He judged right, that, by stimulating my mind into action, the sensations, which so heavily oppressed it, might be, in some measure, mitigated--by diverting the course of my ideas into different channels, and by that means abating their force.
His kindness soothed and flattered me, and communications relieved my thoughts.
CHAPTER XIII

The period which succeeded these events, though tedious in wearing away, marked by no vicissitude, has left little impression behind.
The tenor of my days resembled the still surface of a stagnant lake, embosomed in a deep cavern, over which the refreshing breezes never sweep.
Sad, vacant, inactive--the faculties both of mind and body seemed almost suspended.
I became weak, languid, enervated--my disorder was a lethargy of soul.
This was gradually succeeded by disease of body:--an inactivity, so contrary to all the habits of my past life, generated morbid humours, and brought on a slow, remitting, fever.
I recovered, by degrees, from this attack, but remained for some time in a debilitated, though convalescent, state.
A few weeks after my disorder returned, lasted longer, and left me still more weakened and depressed.
A third time it assailed me, at a shorter interval; and, though less violent, was more protracted, and more exhausting.
Mrs Denbeigh, alarmed by my situation, wrote to Mrs Harley, expressing the apprehensions which she entertained.
From this dear friend, who was herself in a declining state of health, I received a pressing invitation to visit, once more, the village of F----; and to seek, from change of air, change of scene, and the cordial endearments of friendship, a restoration for my debilitated frame, and a balm for my wounded mind.
My relation, at this period, had letters from her husband, informing her, that the term of his residence in India was prolonged; pressing her to join him there, and to come over in the next ship.
To this request she joyfully acceded; and, hearing that a packet was about to sail for Bengal, secured her passage, and began immediately to make preparations for her departure.
I no longer hesitated to comply with the entreaties of my friend; besides the tie of strong affection, which drew me to her, I had, at present, little other resource.
After affectionately embracing Mrs Denbeigh, wishing a happy issue to her voyage, thanking her for all her kindness, and leaving a letter of grateful acknowledgement for Mr Francis, I quitted the metropolis, with an aching heart, and a wasted frame.
My cousin accompanied me to the inn, from whence the vehicle set out that was to convey me to Mrs Harley.
We parted in silence--a crowd of retrospective ideas of the past, and solicitudes respecting the future, occupied our thoughts--our sensations were too affecting for words.
The carriage quitted London at the close of the evening, and travelled all night:--it was towards the end of the year.
At midnight we passed over Hounslow and Bagshot heaths.
'The moon,' to adopt the language of Ossian, 'looked through broken clouds, and brightened their dark-brown sides.'
A loud November blast howled over the heath, and whistled through the fern.--There was a melancholy desolation in the scene, that was in unison with my feelings, and which overwhelmed my spirits with a tide of tender recollections.
I recalled to my imagination a thousand interesting images--I indulged in all the wild enthusiasm of my character.
My fellow-travellers slept tranquilly, while my soul was awake to agonizing sorrow.
I adopted the language of the tender Eloisa--'Why,' said I, 'am I indebted for life to his care, whose cruelty has rendered it insupportable?
Inhuman, as he is, let him fly from me for ever, and deny himself the savage pleasure of being an eye-witness to my sorrows!--But why do I rave thus?--He is not to be blamed--_I, alone, am guilty_--I, alone, am the author of my own misfortunes, and should, therefore, be the only object of anger and resentment.
'[19]

[Footnote 19: Rousseau.]
Weakened by my late indisposition, fatigued by the rough motion of the carriage, and exhausted by strong emotion, when arrived at the end of my journey, I was obliged to be lifted from the coach, and carried into the cottage of my friend.
The servant led the way to the library--the door opened--Mrs Harley advanced, to receive me, with tottering steps.
The ravages of grief, and the traces of sickness, were visible in her dear, affectionate, countenance.
I clasped my hands, and, lifting up my eyes, beheld the portrait of Augustus--beheld again the resemblance of those features so deeply engraven on my heart!
My imagination was raised--methought the lively colours of the complexion had faded, the benignant smile had vanished, and an expression of perplexity and sternness usurped its place.
I uttered a faint shriek, and fell lifeless into the arms of my friend.
It was some time before I returned to sense and recollection, when I found myself on the bed, in the little chamber which had formerly been appropriated to my use.
My friend sat beside me, holding my hand in her's, which she bathed with her tears.
'Thank God!'
she exclaimed, in a rapturous accent, (as, with a deep sigh, I raised my languid eyes, and turned them mournfully towards her)--'she lives!--My Emma!--child of my affections!'
--sobs suppressed her utterance.
I drew the hand, which held mine, towards me--I pressed it to my bosom--'_My mother!_'--I would have said; but the tender appellation died away upon my lips, in inarticulate murmurs.
These severe struggles were followed by a return of my disorder.
Mrs Harley would scarcely be persuaded to quit my chamber for a moment--her tenderness seemed to afford her new strength;--but these exertions accelerated the progress of an internal malady, which had for some time past been gaining ground, and gradually undermining her health.
Youth, and a good constitution, aided by the kind solicitudes of friendship, restored me, in a few weeks, to a state of convalescence.
I observed the declining strength of my friend with terror--I accused myself of having, though involuntarily, added to these alarming symptoms, by the new fatigues and anxieties which I had occasioned her.
Affection inspired me with those energies, that reason had vainly dictated.
I struggled to subdue myself--I stifled the impetuous suggestions of my feelings, in exerting myself to fulfil the duties of humanity.
My mind assumed a firmer tone--I became, once more, the cheerful companion, the tender consoler, the attentive nurse, of this excellent woman, to whose kindness I was so much indebted--and, if I stole a few moments in the day, while my friend reposed, to gaze on the resemblance of Augustus, to weep over the testimonies of his former respect and friendship, I quickly chased from my bosom, and my countenance, every trace of sadness, when summoned to attend my friend.
CHAPTER XIV

The winter came on severe and cold.
Mrs Harley was forbidden to expose herself to the frosty air, which seemed to invigorate my languid frame.
I was constituted her almoner, to distribute to the neighbouring poor the scanty portion, which she was enabled, by a rigid oeconomy, to spare from her little income: yet the value of this distribution had been more than redoubled, by the gentler charities of kind accents, tender sympathy, and wholesome counsels.
To these indigent, but industrious, cottagers, I studied to be the worthy representative of their amiable benefactress, and found my reward in their grateful attachment, and the approving smiles of my friend.
By degrees, she ventured to converse with me on the subject nearest her heart--the situation of her son.
He had been obliged to yield to the proofs produced of his marriage, which he had, at first, seemed desirous of evading.
He had written, with reserve, upon the subject to his mother; but, from the enquiries of a common friend, she had reason to apprehend, that his engagement had been of an imprudent nature.
Two children, were, already the fruits of it: the mother, with a feminine helplessness of character, had a feeble constitution.
The small fortune, which Augustus had originally shared with his family, was greatly reduced.
His education and habits had unfitted him for those exertions which the support of an encreasing family necessarily required:--his spirits (her friend had informed her) seemed broken, and his temper soured.
Some efforts had been made to serve him, which his lofty spirit had repelled with disdain.
This narration deeply affected my heart--I had resigned myself to his loss--but the idea of his suffering, I felt, was an evil infinitely severer.
It was this conviction that preyed incessantly on the peace and health of his mother.
My fortitude failed, when I would have tried to sustain her; and I could only afford the melancholy satisfaction of mingling my sorrows with her's.
The disorder of my friend rapidly increased--her mind became weakened, and her feelings wayward and irritable.
I watched her incessantly--I strove, by every alleviating care, to soften her pains.
Towards the approach of spring the symptoms grew more threatening; and it was judged, by her physician, necessary to apprize her family of her immediate danger.
What a trial for my exhausted heart!
I traced, with a trembling hand, a line to this melancholy purpose--addressed it to Mr Harley, and through him to his younger brothers and sisters.
In a few days they arrived in the village--sending from the inn a servant, to prepare their mother for their approach.
I gently intimated to her the visitants we might expect.
The previous evening, a change had taken place, which indicated approaching dissolution; and her mind (not uncommon in similar cases) seemed, almost instantaneously, to have recovered a portion of its original strength.
She sighed deeply, while her eyes, which were fixed wistfully on my face, were lighted with a bright, but transient, lustre.
'My dear Emma,' said she, 'this is a trying moment for us both.
I shall soon close my eyes, for ever, upon all worldly cares.--Still cherish, in your pure and ingenuous mind, a friendship for my Augustus--the darling of my soul!
He may, in future, stand in need of consolation.
I had formed hopes--vain hopes!--in which you and he were equally concerned.
In the happiness of this partially-favoured child--this idol of my affections--all mine was concentrated.
He has disappointed me, and I have lost the desire of living--Yet, he has noble qualities!--Who, alas!
is perfect?
Summon your fortitude, collect your powers, my child, for this interview!'
She sunk on her pillow--I answered her only with my tears.
A servant entered--but spoke not--her look announced her tidings--It caught the eye of Mrs Harley--

'Let them enter,' said she; and she raised herself, to receive them, and assumed an aspect of composure.
I covered my face with my handkerchief--I heard the sound of footsteps approaching the bed--I heard the murmurs of filial sorrow--The voice of Augustus, in low and interrupted accents, struck upon my ear--it thrilled through my nerves--I shuddered, involuntarily--What a moment!
My friend spoke a few words, in a faint tone.
'My children,' she added, 'repay to this dear girl,' laying her hand upon mine, 'the debt of kindness I owe her--she has smoothed the pillow of death--she is an orphan--she is tender and unfortunate.'
I ventured to remove for a moment the handkerchief from my eyes--they met those of Augustus--he was kneeling by the bed-side--his countenance was wan, and every feature sunk in dejection; a shivering crept through my veins, and chilled my heart with a sensation of icy coldness--he removed his eyes, fixing them on his dying mother.
'My son,' she resumed, in still fainter accents, 'behold in Emma, your sister--_your friend!_--confide in her--she is worthy of your confidence!'
--'Will you not love him, my child,'--(gazing upon me,)--'with a sisterly affection?'
I hid my face upon the pillow of my friend--I threw my arms around her--'Your request is superfluous, my friend, my more than parent, _ah, how superfluous_!'
'Forgive me, I know the tenderness of your nature--yielding, in these parting moments, to the predominant affection of my heart--I fear, I have wounded that tender nature.'
'Farewell, my children!
Love and assist each other--Augustus, where is your hand?--my sight fails me--God bless you and your little ones--_God bless you all_!--My last sigh--my last prayer--is yours.'
Exhausted by these efforts, she fainted--Augustus uttered a deep groan, and raised her in his arms--but life was fled.
At the remembrance of these scenes, even at this period, my heart is melted within me.
What is there of mournful magic in the emotions of virtuous sorrow, that in retracing, in dwelling upon them, mingles with our tears a sad and sublime rapture?
Nature, that has infused so much misery into the cup of human life, has kindly mixed this strange and mysterious ingredient to qualify the bitter draught.
CHAPTER XV

After the performance of the last melancholy duties, this afflicted family prepared to separate.
I received from them, individually, friendly offers of service, and expressions of acknowledgment, for my tender attentions to their deceased parent.
I declined, for the present, their invitations, and profferred kindness, though uncertain how to dispose of myself, or which way to direct my course.
Augustus behaved towards me with distant, cold, respect.
I observed in his features, under a constrained appearance of composure, marks of deep and strong emotion.
I recalled to my mind the injunctions of my deceased friend--I yearned to pour into his bosom the balm of sympathy, but, with an aspect bordering on severity, he repressed the expression of those ingenuous feelings which formed my character, and shunned the confidence I so earnestly sought.
Unfortunate love had, in my subdued and softened mind, laid the foundation of a fervent and durable friendship--But my love, my friendship, were equally contemned!
I relinquished my efforts--I shut myself in my chamber--and, in secret, indulged my sorrows.
The house of my deceased friend was sold, and the effects disposed of.
On the day previous to their removal, and the departure of the family for London, I stole into the library, at the close of the evening, to view, for _the last time_, the scene of so many delightful, so many afflicting emotions.
A mysterious and sacred enchantment is spread over every circumstance, even every inanimate object, connected with the affections.
To those who are strangers to these delicate, yet powerful sympathies, this may appear ridiculous--but the sensations are not the less genuine, nor the less in nature.
I will not attempt to analyse them, it is a subject upon which the language of philosophy would appear frigid, and on which I feel myself every moment on the verge of fanaticism.
Yet, affections like these are not so much weakness, as strength perhaps badly exerted.
Rousseau was, right, when he asserted, that, 'Common men know nothing of violent sorrows, nor do great passions ever break out in weak minds.
Energy of sentiment is the characteristic of a noble soul.'
I gazed from the windows on the shrubbery, where I had so often wandered with my friends--where I had fondly cherished so many flattering, so many visionary, prospects.
Every spot, every tree, was associated with some past pleasure, some tender recollection.
The last rays of the setting sun, struggling from beneath a louring cloud, streamed through its dark bosom, illumined its edges, played on the window in which I was standing, and gilding the opposite side of the wainscot, against which the picture of Augustus still hung, shed a soft and mellow lustre over the features.
I turned almost unconsciously, and contemplated it with a long and deep regard.
It seemed to smile benignly--it wore no traces of the cold austerity, the gloomy and inflexible reserve, which now clouded the aspect of the original.
I called to my remembrance a thousand interesting conversations--when

'Tuned to happy unison of soul, a fairer world of which the        vulgar never had a glimpse, displayed, its charms.'
Absorbed in thought, the crimson reflection from the western clouds gradually faded, while the deep shades of the evening, thickened by the appearance of a gathering tempest, involved in obscurity the object on which, without distinctly perceiving it, I still continued to gaze.
I was roused from this reverie by the sudden opening of the door.
Some person, whom the uncertain light prevented me from distinguishing, walked across the room, with a slow and solemn pace, and, after taking several turns backwards and forwards, reclined on the sopha, remaining for some time perfectly still.
A tremor shook my nerves--unable either to speak, or to move, I continued silent and trembling--my heart felt oppressed, almost to suffocation--at length, a deep, convulsive sigh, forced its way.
'My God!'
exclaimed the person, whose meditations I had interrupted, 'what is that?'
It was the voice of Mr Harley, he spoke in a stern tone, though with some degree of trepidation, and advanced hastily towards the window against which I leaned.
The clouds had for some hours been gathering dark and gloomy.
Just as Augustus had reached the place where I stood, a flash of lightning, pale, yet vivid, glanced suddenly across my startled sight, and discovered to him the object which had alarmed him.
'Emma,' said he, in a softened accent, taking my trembling and almost lifeless hand, 'how came you here, which way did you enter?'
I answered not--Another flash of lightning, still brighter, blue and sulphurous, illuminated the room, succeeded by a loud and long peal of thunder.
Again the heavens seemed to rend asunder and discover a sheet of livid flame--a crash of thunder, sudden, loud, short, immediately followed, bespeaking the tempest near.
I started with a kind of convulsive terror.
Augustus led me from the window, and endeavoured, in vain, to find the door of the library--the temporary flashes, and total darkness by which they were succeeded, dazzled and confounded the sight.
I stumbled over some furniture, which stood in the middle of the room, and unable to recover my feet, which refused any longer to sustain me, sunk into the arms of Augustus, suffering him to lift me to the sopha.
He seated himself beside me, the storm continued; the clouds, every moment parting with a horrible noise, discovered an abyss of fire, while the rain descended in a deluge.
We silently contemplated this sublime and terrible scene.
Augustus supported me with one arm, while my trembling hand remained in his.
The tempest soon exhausted itself by its violence--the lightning became less fierce, gleaming at intervals--the thunder rolled off to a distance--its protracted sound, lengthened by the echoes, faintly died away; while the rain continued to fall in a still, though copious, shower.
My spirits grew calmer, I gently withdrew my hand from that of Mr Harley.
He once more enquired, but in a tone of greater reserve, how I had entered the room without his knowledge?
I explained, briefly and frankly, my situation, and the tender motives by which I had been influenced.
'It was not possible,' added I, 'to take leave of this house _for ever_, without recalling a variety of affecting and melancholy ideas--I feel, that I have lost _my only friend_.'
'This world,' said he, 'may not unaptly be compared to the rapids on the American rivers--We are hurried, in a frail bark, down the stream--It is in vain to resist its course--happy are those whose voyage is ended!'
'My friend,' replied I in a faultering voice, 'I could teach my heart to bear your loss--though, God knows, the lesson has been sufficiently severe--but I know not how, with fortitude, to see you suffer.'
'Suffering is the common lot of humanity--but, pardon me, when I say, your conduct has not tended to lessen my vexations!'
'My errors have been the errors of _affection_--Do they deserve this rigor?'
'Their source is not important, their consequences have been the same--you make not the allowances you claim.'
'Dear, and severe, friend!--Be not unjust--the confidence which I sought, and merited, would have been obviated'--

'I know what you would alledge--that confidence, you had reason to judge, was of a painful nature--it ought not to have been extorted.'
'If I have been wrong, my faults have been severely expiated--if the error has been _only mine_, surely my sufferings have been in proportion; seduced by the fervor of my feelings; ignorant of your situation, if I wildly sought to oblige you to chuse happiness through a medium of my creation--yet, to have assured _yours_, was I not willing to risque all my own?
I perceive my extravagance, my views were equally false and romantic--dare I to say--they were the ardent excesses of a generous mind?
Yes!
my wildest mistakes had in them a dignified mixture of virtue.
While the institutions of society war against nature and happiness, the mind of energy, struggling to emancipate itself, will entangle itself in error'--

'Permit me to ask you,' interrupted Augustus, 'whether, absorbed in your own sensations, you allowed yourself to remember, and to respect, the feelings of others?'
I could no longer restrain my tears, I wept for some moments in silence--Augustus breathed a half-suppressed sigh, and turned from me his face.
'The pangs which have rent my heart,' resumed I, in low and broken accents, 'have, I confess, been but too poignant!
That lacerated heart still bleeds--we have neither of us been guiltless--_Alas!
who is?_ Yet in my bosom, severe feelings are not more painful than transient--already have I lost sight of your unkindness, (God knows how little I merited it!)
in stronger sympathy for your sorrows--whatever be their nature!
We have both erred--why should we not exchange mutual forgiveness?
Why should we afflict each other?
Friendship, like charity, should suffer all things and be kind!'
'My mind,' replied he coldly, 'is differently constituted.'
'_Unpitying man!_ It would be hard for us, if we were all to be judged at so severe a tribunal--you have been a _lover_,' added I, in a softer tone, 'and can you not forgive the faults of _love_?'
He arose, visibly agitated--I also stood up--my bosom deeply wounded, and, unknowing what I did, took his hand, and pressed it to my lips.
'You have rudely thrown from you a heart of exquisite sensibility--you have contemned my love, and you disdain my friendship--is it brave, is it manly,' added I wildly--almost unconscious of what I said--forgetting at the moment his situation and my own--'thus to triumph over a spirit, subdued by its affections into unresisting meekness?'
He broke from me, and precipitately quitted the room.
I threw myself upon the floor, and, resting my head on the seat which Augustus had so lately occupied, passed the night in cruel conflict--a tempest more terrible than that which had recently spent its force, shook my soul!
The morning dawned, ere I had power to remove myself from the fatal spot, where the measure of my afflictions seemed filled up.--Virtue may conquer weakness, but who can bear to be despised by those they love.
The sun darted its beams full upon me, but its splendour appeared mockery--hope and joy were for ever excluded from my benighted spirit.
The contempt of the world, the scoffs of ignorance, the contumely of the proud, I could have borne without shrinking--but to find myself rejected, contemned, scorned, by him with whom, of all mankind, my heart claimed kindred; by him for whom my youth, my health, my powers, were consuming in silent anguish--who, instead of pouring balm into the wound he had inflicted, administered only corrosives!--_It was too painful!_ I felt, that I had been a lavish prodigal--that I had become a wretched bankrupt; that there was but _one way_ to make me happy and _a thousand_ to make me miserable!
Enfeebled and exhausted, I crawled to my apartment, and, throwing myself on the bed, gave a loose to the agony of my soul.
CHAPTER XVI

Under pretence of indisposition, I refused to meet the family.
I heard them depart.
Too proud to accept of obligation, I had not confided to them my plans, if plans they could be called, where no distinct end was in view.
A few hours after their departure, I once more seated myself in a stage coach, in which I had previously secured a place, and took the road to London.
I perceived, on entering the carriage, only one passenger, who had placed himself in the opposite corner, and in whom, to my great surprize, I immediately recognized Mr Montague.
We had not met since the visit he had paid me at Mrs Harley's, the result of which I have already related: since that period, it had been reported in the village, that he addressed Sarah Morton, and that they were about to be united.
Montague manifested equal surprize at our meeting: the intelligence of my friend's death (at which he expressed real concern) had not reached him, neither was he acquainted with my being in that part of the country.
He had not lately been at Mr Morton's, he informed me, but had just left his father's, and was going to London to complete his medical studies.
After these explanations, absorbed in painful contemplation, I for some time made little other return to his repeated civilities, than by cold monosyllables: till at length, his cordial sympathy, his gentle accents, and humane attentions, awakened me from my reverie.
Ever accessible to the soothings of kindness, I endeavoured to exert myself, to prove the sense I felt of his humanity.
Gratified by having succeeded in attracting my attention, he redoubled his efforts to cheer and amuse me.
My dejected and languid appearance had touched his feelings, and, towards the end of our journey, his unaffected zeal to alleviate the anxiety under which I evidently appeared to labour, soothed my mind and inspired me with confidence.
He respectfully requested to know in what part of the town I resided, and hoped to be permitted to pay his respects to me, and to enquire after my welfare?
This question awakened in my bosom so many complicated and painful sensations, that, after remaining silent for a few minutes, I burst into a flood of tears.
'I have no home;' said I, in a voice choaked with sobs--'I am an alien in the world--and alone in the universe.'
His eyes glistened, his countenance expressed the most lively, and tender, commiseration, while, in a timid and respectful voice, he made me offers of service, and entreated me to permit him to be useful to me.
'I then mentioned, in brief, my present unprotected situation, and hinted, that as my fortune was small, I could wish to procure a humble, but decent, apartment in a reputable family, till I had consulted one friend, who, I yet flattered myself, was interested in my concerns, or till I could fix on a more eligible method of providing for myself.'
He informed me--'That he had a distant relation in town, a decent, careful, woman, who kept a boarding house, and whose terms were very reasonable.
He was assured, would I permit him to introduce me to her, she would be happy, should her accommodation suit me, to pay me every attention in her power.'
In my forlorn situation, I confided, without hesitation, in his recommendation, and gratefully acceded to the proposal.
Mr Montague introduced me to this lady in the most flattering terms, she received me with civility, but, I fancied, not without a slight mixture of distrust.
I agreed with her for a neat chamber, with a sitting room adjoining, on the second floor, and settled for the terms of my board, more than the whole amount of the interest of my little fortune.
CHAPTER XVII

I took an early opportunity of addressing a few lines to Mr Francis, informing him of my situation, and entreating his counsel.
I waited a week, impatiently, for his reply, but in vain: well acquainted with his punctuality, and alarmed by this silence, I mentioned the step I had taken, and my apprehensions, to Montague, who immediately repaired, himself, to the house of Mr Francis; and, finding it shut up, was informed by the neighbours, that Mr Francis had quitted England, a short time before, in company with a friend, intending to make a continental tour.
This intelligence was a new shock to me.
I called on some of my former acquaintance, mentioning to them my wish of procuring pupils, or of engaging in any other occupation fitted to my talents.
I was received by some with civility, by others with coldness, but every one appeared too much engrossed by his own affairs to give himself the trouble of making any great exertion for others.
I returned dispirited--I walked through the crowded city, and observed the anxious and busy faces of all around me.
In the midst of my fellow beings, occupied in various pursuits, I seemed, as if in an immense desart, a solitary outcast from society.
Active, industrious, willing to employ my faculties in any way, by which I might procure an honest independence, I beheld no path open to me, but that to which my spirit could not submit--the degradation of servitude.
Hapless woman!--crushed by the iron hand of barbarous despotism, pampered into weakness, and trained the slave of meretricious folly!--what wonder, that, shrinking from the chill blasts of penury (which the pernicious habits of thy education have little fitted thy tender frame to encounter) thou listenest to the honied accents of the spoiler; and, to escape the galling chain of servile dependence, rushest into the career of infamy, from whence the false and cruel morality of the world forbids thy return, and perpetuates thy disgrace and misery!
When will mankind be aware of the uniformity, of the importance, of truth?
When will they cease to confound, by sexual, by political, by theological, distinctions, those immutable principles, which form the true basis of virtue and happiness?
The paltry expedients of combating error with error, and prejudice with prejudice, in one invariable and melancholy circle, have already been sufficiently tried, have already been demonstrated futile:--they have armed man against man, and filled the world with crimes, and with blood.--How has the benign and gentle nature of Reform been mistated!
'One false idea,' justly says an acute and philosophic writer,[20] 'united with others, produces such as are necessarily false; which, combining again with all those the memory retains, give to all a tinge of falsehood.
One error, alone, is sufficient to infect the whole mass of the mind, and produce an infinity of capricious, monstrous, notions.--Every vice is the error of the understanding; crimes and prejudices are brothers; truth and virtue sisters.
These things, known to the wise, are hid from fools!'
[Footnote 20: Helvetius.]
Without a sufficiently interesting pursuit, a fatal torpor stole over my spirits--my blood circulated languidly through my veins.
Montague, in the intervals from business and amusement, continued to visit me.
He brought me books, read to me, chatted with me, pressed me to accompany him to places of public entertainment, which (determined to incur no pecuniary obligation) I invariably refused.
I received his civilities with the less scruple, from the information I had received of his engagement with Miss Morton; which, with his knowledge of my unhappy attachment, I thought, precluded every idea of a renewal of those sentiments he had formerly professed for me.
In return for his friendship, I tried to smile, and exerted my spirits, to prove my grateful sensibility of his kindness: but, while he appeared to take a lively interest in my sorrows, he carefully avoided a repetition of the language in which he had once addressed me; yet, at times, his tender concern seemed sliding into a sentiment still softer, which obliged me to practise more reserve: he was not insensible of this, and was frequently betrayed into transient bursts of passion and resentment, which, on my repelling with firmness, he would struggle to repress, and afterwards absent himself for a time.
Unable to devise any method of increasing my income, and experiencing the pressure of some daily wants and inconveniencies, I determined, at length, on selling the sum invested, in my name, in the funds, and purchasing a life annuity.
Recollecting the name of a banker, with whom my uncle, the friend of my infancy, had formerly kept cash, I learned his residence, and, waiting upon him, made myself known as the niece of an old and worthy friend; at the same time acquainting him with my intentions.--He offered to transact the affair for me immediately, the funds being, then, in a very favourable position; and to preserve the money in his hands till an opportunity should offer of laying it out to advantage.
I gave him proper credentials for the accomplishing of this business, and returned to my apartment with a heart somewhat lightened.
This scheme had never before occurred to me.
The banker, who was a man of commercial reputation, had assured me, that my fortune might now be sold out with little loss; and that, by purchasing an annuity, on proper security, at seven or eight per cent, I might, with oeconomy, be enabled to support myself decently, with comfort and independence.
CHAPTER XVIII

Some weeks elapsed, and I heard no more from my banker.
A slight indisposition confined me to the house.
One evening, Mr Montague, coming to my apartment to enquire after my health, brought with him a newspaper (as was his frequent custom), and, finding me unwell, and dispirited, began to read some parts from it aloud, in the hope of amusing me.
Among the articles of home intelligence, a paragraph stated--'The failure of a considerable mercantile house, which had created an alarm upon the Exchange, as, it was apprehended, some important consequences would follow in the commercial world.
A great banking-house, it was hinted, not many miles from ----, was likely to be affected, by some rumours, in connection with this business, which had occasioned a considerable run upon it for the last two or three days.'
My attention was roused--I eagerly held out my hand for the paper, and perused this alarming paragraph again and again, without observing the surprize expressed in the countenance of Montague, who was at a loss to conceive why this intelligence should be affecting to me.--I sat, for some minutes, involved in thought, till a question from my companion, several times repeated, occasioned me to start.
I immediately recollected myself, and tried to reason away my fears, as vague and groundless.
I was about to explain the nature of them to my friend--secretly accusing myself for not having done so sooner, and availed myself of his advice, when a servant, entering, put a letter into his hand.
Looking upon the seal and superscription, he changed colour, and opened it hastily.
Strong emotion was painted in his features while he perused it.
I regarded him with anxiety.
He rose from his seat, walked up and down the room with a disordered pace--opened the door, as if with an intention of going out--shut it--returned back again--threw himself into a chair--covered his face with his handkerchief--appeared in great agitation--and burst into tears.
I arose, went to him, and took his hand--'_My friend!_' said I--I would have added something more--but, unable to proceed, I sunk into a seat beside him, and wept in sympathy.
He pressed my hand to his lips--folded me wildly in his arms, and attempted to speak--but his voice was lost in convulsive sobs.
I gently withdrew myself, and waited, in silence, till the violence of his emotions should subside.
He held out to me the letter he had received.
I perused it.
It contained an account of the sudden death of his father, and a summons for his immediate return to the country, to settle the affairs, and to take upon him his father's professional employment.
'You leave me, then!'
said I--'I lose my only remaining friend!'
'_Never!_'--he replied, emphatically.
I blushed for having uttered so improper, so selfish, a remark; and endeavoured to atone for it by forgetting the perils of my own situation, in attention to that of this ardent, but affectionate, young man.--His sufferings were acute and violent for some days, during which he quitted me only at the hours of repose--I devoted myself to sooth and console him.
I felt, that I had been greatly indebted to his friendship and kindness, and I endeavoured to repay the obligation.
He appeared fully sensible of my cares, and, mingled with his acknowledgments expressions of a tenderness, so lively, and unequivocal, as obliged me, once more, to be more guarded in my behaviour.
In consideration for the situation of Mr Montague--I had forgotten the paragraph in the paper, till an accidental intelligence of the bankruptcy of the house, in which my little fortune was entrusted, confirmed to me the certainty of this terrible blow.
Montague was sitting with me when I received the unwelcome news.
'Gracious God!'
I exclaimed, clasping my hands, and raising my eyes to heaven--'What is to become of me now?--The measure of my sorrows is filled up!'
It was some time before I had power to explain the circumstances to my companion.
'Do not distress yourself, my lovely Emma,' said he; 'I will be your friend--your guardian--' (and he added, in a low, yet fervent, accent) --'_your husband_!'
'No--no--no!'
answered I, shaking my head, 'that must not, cannot, be!
I would perish, rather than take advantage of a generosity like yours.
I will go to service--I will work for my bread--and, if I cannot procure a wretched sustenance--_I can but die_!
Life, to me, has long been worthless!'
My countenance, my voice, my manner, but too forcibly expressed the keen anguish of my soul.
I seemed to be marked out for the victim of a merciless destiny--_for the child of sorrow_!
The susceptible temper of Montague, softened by his own affliction, was moved by my distress.
He repeated, and enforced, his proposal, with all the ardour of a youthful, a warm, an uncorrupted, mind.
'You add to my distress,' replied I.
'I have not a heart to bestow--I lavished mine upon one, who scorned and contemned it.
Its sensibility is now exhausted.
Shall I reward a faithful and generous tenderness, like yours, with a cold, a worthless, an alienated, mind?
No, no!--Seek an object more worthy of you, and leave me to my fate.'
At that moment, I had forgotten the report of his engagement with Miss Morton; but, on his persisting, vehemently, to urge his suit, I recollected, and immediately mentioned, it, to him.
He confessed--

'That, stung by my rejection, and preference of Mr Harley, he had, at one period, entertained a thought of that nature; but that he had fallen out with the family, in adjusting the settlements.
Mrs Morton had persuaded her husband to make, what he conceived to be, ungenerous requisitions.
Miss Morton had discovered much artifice, but little sensibility, on the occasion.
Disgusted with the apathy of the father, the insolence of the mother and the low cunning of the daughter, he had abruptly quitted them, and broken off all intercourse with the family.'
It is not necessary to enlarge on this part of my narrative.
Suffice it to say, that, after a long contest, my desolate situation, added to the persevering affection of this enthusiastic young man, prevailed over my objections.
His happiness, he told me, entirely depended on my decision.
I would not deceive him:--I related to him, with simplicity and truth, all the circumstances of my past conduct towards Mr Harley.
He listened to me with evident emotion--interrupted me, at times, with execrations; and, once or twice, vowing vengeance on Augustus, appeared on the verge of outrage.
But I at length reasoned him into greater moderation, and obliged him to do justice to the merit and honour of Mr Harley.
He acquiesced reluctantly, and with an ill grace, yet, with a lover-like partiality, attributed his conduct to causes, of which I had discerned no traces.
He assured himself that the affections of a heart, tender as mine, would be secured by kindness and assiduity--and I at last yielded to his importunity.
We were united in a short time, and I accompanied my husband to the town of ----, in the county of ----, the residence of his late father.
CHAPTER XIX

Mr Montague presented me to his relations and friends, by whom I was received with a flattering distinction.
My wearied spirits began now to find repose.
My husband was much occupied in the duties of his profession.
We had a respectable circle of acquaintance: In the intervals of social engagement, and domestic employment, ever thirsting after knowledge, I occasionally applied myself to the study of physic, anatomy, and surgery, with the various branches of science connected with them; by which means I frequently rendered myself essentially serviceable to my friend; and, by exercising my understanding and humanity, strengthened my mind, and stilled the importunate suggestions of a heart too exquisitely sensible.
The manners of Mr Montague were kind and affectionate, though subject, at times, to inequalities and starts of passion; he confided in me, as his best and truest friend--and I deserved his confidence:--yet, I frequently observed the restlessness and impetuosity of his disposition with apprehension.
I felt for my husband a rational esteem, and a grateful affection:--but those romantic, high-wrought, frenzied, emotions, that had rent my heart during its first attachment--that enthusiasm, that fanaticism, to which opposition had given force, the bare recollection of which still shook my soul with anguish, no longer existed.
Montague was but too sensible of this difference, which naturally resulted from the change of circumstances, and was unreasonable enough to complain of what secured our tranquillity.
If a cloud, sometimes, hung over my brow--if I relapsed, for a short period, into a too habitual melancholy, he would grow captious, and complain.
'You esteem me, Emma: I confide in your principles, and I glory in your friendship--but, you have never _loved_ me!'
'Why will you be so unjust, both to me, and to yourself?'
'Tell me, then, sincerely--I know you will not deceive me--Have you ever felt for me those sentiments with which Augustus Harley inspired you?'
'Certainly not--I do not pretend to it--neither ought you to wish it.
My first attachment was the morbid excess of a distempered imagination.
Liberty, reason, virtue, usefulness, were the offerings I carried to its shrine.
It preyed incessantly upon my heart, I drank up its vital spirit, it became a vice from its excess--it was a pernicious, though a sublime, enthusiasm--its ravages are scarcely to be remembered without shuddering--all the strength, the dignity, the powers, of my mind, melted before it!
Do you wish again to see me the slave of my passions--do you regret, that I am restored to reason?
To you I owe every thing--life, and its comforts, rational enjoyments, and the opportunity of usefulness.
I feel for you all the affection that a reasonable and a virtuous mind ought to feel--that affection which is compatible with the fulfilling of other duties.
We are guilty of vice and selfishness when we yield ourselves up to unbounded desires, and suffer our hearts to be wholly absorbed by one object, however meritorious that object may be.'
'Ah!
how calmly you reason,--while I listen to you I cannot help loving and admiring you, but I must ever hate that accursed Harley--No!
_I am not satisfied_--and I sometimes regret that I ever beheld you.'
Many months glided away with but little interruptions to our tranquillity.--A remembrance of the past would at times obtrude itself, like the broken recollections of a feverish vision.
To banish these painful retrospections, I hastened to employ myself; every hour was devoted to active usefulness, or to social and rational recreation.
I became a mother; in performing the duties of a nurse, my affections were awakened to new and sweet emotions.--The father of my child appeared more respectable in my eyes, became more dear to me: the engaging smiles of my little Emma repayed me for every pain and every anxiety.
While I beheld my husband caress his infant, I tasted a pure, a chaste, an ineffable pleasure.
CHAPTER XX

About six weeks after my recovery from childbed, some affairs of importance called Mr Montague to London.
Three days after he had quitted me, as, bending over the cradle of my babe, I contemplated in silence its tranquil slumbers, I was alarmed by an uncommon confusion in the lower part of the house.
Hastening down stairs, to enquire into the cause, I was informed--that a gentleman, in passing through the town, had been thrown from his horse, that he was taken up senseless, and, as was customary in cases of accident, had been brought into our house, that he might receive assistance.
Mr Montague was from home, a young gentleman who resided with us, and assisted my husband in his profession, was also absent, visiting a patient.
Having myself acquired some knowledge of surgery, I went immediately into the hall to give the necessary directions on the occasion.
The gentleman was lying on the floor, without any signs of life.
I desired the people to withdraw, who, crowding round with sincere, but useless sympathy, obstructed the circulation of air.
Approaching the unfortunate man, I instantly recognised the well-known features, though much altered, wan and sunk, of _Augustus Harley_.
Staggering a few paces backward--a death-like sickness overspread my heart--a crowd of confused and terrible emotions rushed through my mind.--But a momentary reflection recalled my scattered thoughts.
Once before, I had saved from death an object so fatal to my repose.
I exerted all my powers, his hair was clotted, and his face disfigured with blood; I ordered the servants to raise and carry him to an adjoining apartment, wherein was a large, low sopha, on which they laid him.
Carefully washing the blood from the wound, I found he had received a dangerous contusion in his head, but that the scull, as I had at first apprehended, was not fractured.
I cut the hair from the wounded part, and applied a proper bandage.
I did more--no other assistance being at hand, I ventured to open a vein: the blood presently flowed freely, and he began to revive.
I bathed his temples, and sprinkled the room with vinegar, opened the windows to let the air pass freely through, raised his head with the pillows of the sopha, and sprinkled his face and breast with cold water.
I held his hand in mine--I felt the languid and wavering pulse quicken--I fixed my eyes upon his face--at that moment every thing else was forgotten, and my nerves seemed firmly braced by my exertions.
He at length opened his eyes, gazed upon me with a vacant look, and vainly attempted, for some time, to speak.
At last, he uttered a few incoherent words, but I perceived his senses were wandering, and I conjectured, too truly, that his brain had received a concussion.
He made an effort to rise, but sunk down again.
'Where am I,' said he, 'every object appears to me double.'
He shut his eyes, and remained silent.
I mixed for him a cordial and composing medicine, and entreating him to take it, he once more raised himself, and looked up.--Our eyes met, his were wild and unsettled.
'That voice,'--said he, in a low tone, 'that countenance--Oh God!
where am I?'
A strong, but transient, emotion passed over his features.
With a trembling hand he seized and swallowed the medicine I had offered, and again relapsed into a kind of lethargic stupor.
I then gave orders for a bed to be prepared, into which I had him conveyed.
I darkened the room, and desired, that he might be kept perfectly quiet.
I retired to my apartment, my confinement was yet but recent, and I had not perfectly recovered my strength.
Exhausted by the strong efforts I had made, and the stronger agitation of my mind, I sunk into a fainting fit, (to which I was by no means subject) and remained for some time in a state of perfect insensibility.
On my recovery, I learnt that Mr Lucas, the assistant of my husband, had returned, and was in the chamber of the stranger; I sent for him on his quitting the apartment, and eagerly interrogated him respecting the state of the patient.
He shook his head--I related to him the methods I had taken, and enquired whether I had erred?
He smiled--

'You are an excellent surgeon,' said he, 'you acted very properly, but,' observing my pallid looks, 'I wish your little nursery may not suffer from your humanity'--

'I lay no claim,' replied I with emotion--'to extraordinary humanity--I would have done the same for the poorest of my fellow creatures--but this gentleman is an old acquaintance, _a friend_, whom, in the early periods of my life, I greatly respected.'
'I am sorry for it, for I dare not conceal from you, that I think him in a dangerous condition.'
I changed countenance--'There is no fracture, no bones are broken.'
--

'No, but the brain has received an alarming concussion--he is also, otherwise, much bruised, and, I fear, has suffered some internal injury.'
'You distress and terrify me,' said I, gasping for breath--'What is to be done--shall we call in further advice?'
'I think so; in the mean time, if you are acquainted with his friends, you would do well to apprize them of what has happened.'
'I know little of them, I know not where to address them--Oh!
save him,' continued I, clasping my hands with encreased emotion, unconscious of what I did, 'for God's sake save him, if you would preserve me from dis--'

A look penetrating and curious from Lucas, recalled me to reason.
Commending his patient to my care, he quitted me, and rode to the next town to procure the aid of a skilful and experienced Physician.
I walked up and down the room for some time in a state of distraction.
'He will die'--exclaimed I--'die in my house--fatal accident!
Oh, Augustus!
_too tenderly beloved_, thou wert fated to be the ruin of my peace!
But, whatever may be the consequences, I will perform, for thee, the last tender offices.--I will not desert my duty!'
The nurse brought to me my infant, it smiled in my face--I pressed it to my bosom--I wept over it.--How could I, from that agitated bosom, give it a pernicious sustenance?
CHAPTER XXI

In the evening, I repaired to the chamber of Mr Harley, I sat by his bed-side, I gazed mournfully on his flushed, but vacant countenance--I took his hand--it was dry and burning--the pulse beat rapidly, but irregularly, beneath my trembling fingers.
His lips moved, he seemed to speak, though inarticulately--but sometimes raising his voice, I could distinguish a few incoherent sentences.
In casting my eyes round the room, I observed the scattered articles of his dress, his cloaths were black, and in his hat, which lay on the ground, I discovered a crape hatband.
I continued to hold his burning hand in mine.
'She died,'--said he--'and my unkindness killed her--unhappy Emma--thy heart was too tender!'
--I shuddered--'No, no,'--continued he, after a few minutes pause, 'she is not married--she dared not give her hand without her heart, _and that heart was only mine_!'
he added something more, in a lower tone, which I was unable to distinguish.
Overcome by a variety of sensations, I sunk into a chair, and, throwing my handkerchief over my face, indulged my tears.
Sometimes he mentioned his wife, sometimes his mother.--At length, speaking rapidly, in a raised voice--'My son,'--said he, 'thou hast no mother--but Emma will be a mother to thee--she will love thee--_she loved thy father_--her heart was the residence of gentle affections--yet, I pierced that heart!'
I suspected, that a confused recollection of having seen me on recovering from the state of insensibility, in which he had been brought, after the accident, into our house, had probably recalled the associations formerly connected with this idea.
The scene became too affecting: I rushed from the apartment.
All the past impressions seemed to revive in my mind--my thoughts, with fatal mechanism, ran back into their old and accustomed channels.--For a moment, conjugal, maternal, duties, every consideration _but for one object_ faded from before me!
In a few hours, Mr Lucas returned with the physician;--I attended them to the chamber, heedfully watching their looks.
The fever still continued very high, accompanied with a labouring, unsteady pulse, a difficult respiration, and strong palpitations of the heart.
The doctor said little, but I discovered his apprehensions in his countenance.
The patient appeared particularly restless and uneasy, and the delirium still continued.
On quitting the apartment, I earnestly conjured the gentlemen to tell me their opinion of the case.
They both expressed an apprehension of internal injury.
'But a short time,' they added, 'would determine it; in the mean while he must be kept perfectly still.'
I turned from them, and walked to the window--I raised my eyes to heaven--I breathed an involuntary ejaculation--I felt that the crisis of my fate was approaching, and I endeavoured to steel my nerves--to prepare my mind for the arduous duties which awaited me.
Mr Lucas approached me, the physician having quitted the room.
'_Mrs Montague_,' said he, in an emphatic tone--'in your sympathy for a _stranger_, do not forget other relations.'
'I do not need, sir, to be reminded by you of my duties; were not the sufferings of a fellow being a sufficient claim upon our humanity, this gentleman has _more affecting claims_--I am neither a stranger to him, nor to his virtues.'
'So I perceive, madam,' said he, with an air a little sarcastic, 'I wish, Mr Montague were here to participate your cares.'
'I wish he were, sir, his generous nature would not disallow them.'
I spoke haughtily, and abruptly left him.
I took a turn in the garden, endeavouring to compose my spirits, and, after visiting the nursery, returned to the chamber of Mr Harley.
I there found Mr Lucas, and in a steady tone, declared my intention of watching his patient through the night.
'As you please, madam,' said he coldly.
I seated myself in an easy chair, reclining my head on my hand.
The bed curtains were undrawn on the side next me.
Augustus frequently started, as from broken slumbers; his respiration grew, every moment, more difficult and laborious, and, sometimes, he groaned heavily, as if in great pain.
Once he suddenly raised himself in the bed, and, gazing wildly round the room, exclaimed in a distinct, but hurried tone--

'Why dost thou persecute me with thy ill-fated tenderness?
A fathomless gulf separates us!--Emma!'
added he, in a plaintive voice, '_dost thou, indeed, still love me?_' and, heaving a convulsive sigh, sunk again on his pillow.
Mr Lucas, who stood at the feet of the bed, turned his eye on me.
I met his glance with the steady aspect of conscious rectitude.
About midnight, our patient grew worse, and, after strong agonies, was seized with a vomiting of blood.
The fears of the physician were but too well verified, he had again ruptured the blood-vessel, once before broken.
Mr Lucas had but just retired, I ordered him to be instantly recalled, and, stifling every feeling, that might incapacitate me for active exertion, I rendered him all the assistance in my power--I neither trembled, nor shed a tear--I banished the _woman_ from my heart--I acquitted myself with a firmness that would not have disgraced the most experienced, and veteran surgeon.
My services were materially useful, my solicitude vanquished every shrinking sensibility, _affection had converted me into a heroine_!
The hmorrhage continued, at intervals, all the next day: I passed once or twice from the chamber to the nursery, and immediately returned.
We called in a consultation, but little hope was afforded.
The next night, Mr Lucas and myself continued to watch--towards morning our exhausted patient sunk into an apparently tranquil slumber.
Mr Lucas intreated me to retire, and take some repose, on my refusal, he availed himself of the opportunity, and went to his apartment, desiring to be called if any change should take place.
The nurse slept soundly in her chair, I alone remained watching--I felt neither fatigue nor languor--my strength seemed preserved as by a miracle, so omnipotent is the operation of moral causes!
Silence reigned throughout the house; I hung over the object of my tender cares--his features were serene--but his cheeks and lips were pale and bloodless.
From time to time I took his lifeless hand--a low, fluttering, pulse, sometimes seeming to stop, and then to vibrate with a tremulous motion, but too plainly justified my fears--his breath, though less laborious, was quick and short--a cold dew hung upon his temples--I gently wiped them with my handkerchief, and pressed my lips to his forehead.
Yet, at that moment, that solemn moment--while I beheld the object of my virgin affections--whom I had loved with a tenderness, 'passing the love of woman'--expiring before my eyes--I forgot not that I was a wife and a mother.--The purity of my feelings sanctified their enthusiasm!
The day had far advanced, though the house still remained quiet, when Augustus, after a deep drawn sigh, opened his eyes.
The loss of blood had calmed the delirium, and though he regarded me attentively, and with evident surprize, the wildness of his eyes and countenance had given place to their accustomed steady expression.
He spoke in a faint voice.
'Where am I, how came I here?'
I drew nearer to him--'An unfortunate accident has thrown you into the care of kind friends--you have been very ill--it is not proper that you should exert yourself--rely on those to whom your safety is precious.'
He looked at me as I spoke--his eyes glistened--he breathed a half smothered sigh, but attempted not to reply.
He continued to doze at intervals throughout the day, but evidently grew weaker every hour--I quitted him not for a moment, even my nursery was forgotten.
I sat, or knelt, at the bed's head, and, between his short and broken slumbers, administered cordial medicines.
He seemed to take them with pleasure from my hand, and a mournful tenderness at times beamed in his eyes.
I neither spake nor wept--my strength appeared equal to every trial.
In the evening, starting from a troubled sleep, he fell into convulsions--I kept my station--our efforts were successful--he again revived.
I supported the pillows on which his head reclined, sprinkled the bed cloaths, and bathed his temples, with hungary water, while I wiped from them the damps of death.
A few tears at length forced their way, they fell upon his hand, which rested on the pillow--he kissed them off, and raised to mine his languid eyes, in which death was already painted.
The blood forsaking the extremities, rushed wildly to my heart, a strong palpitation seized it, my fortitude had well nigh forsaken me.
But I had been habituated to subdue my feelings, and should I suffer them to disturb the last moments of him, _who had taught me this painful lesson_?
He made a sign for a cordial, an attendant offering one--he waved his hand and turned from her his face--I took it--held it to his lips, and he instantly drank it.
Another strong emotion shook my nerves--once more I struggled and gained the victory.
He spoke in feeble and interrupted periods--kneeling down, scarce daring to breathe, I listened.
'I have a son,' said he,--'I am dying--he will have no longer a parent--transfer to him a portion of--'

'I comprehend you--say no more--_he is mine_--I adopt him--where shall I find--?'
He pointed to his cloaths;--'a pocket book'--said he, in accents still fainter.
'Enough!--I swear, in this awful moment, never to forsake him.'
He raised my hand to his lips--a tender smile illumined his countenance --'Surely,' said he, 'I have sufficiently fulfilled the dictates of a rigid honour!--In these last moments--when every earthly tie is dissolving--when human institutions fade before my sight--I may, without a crime, tell you--_that I have loved you_.--Your tenderness early penetrated my heart--aware of its weakness--I sought to shun you--I imposed on myself those severe laws of which you causelessly complained.--Had my conduct been less rigid, I had been lost--I had been unjust to the bonds which I had voluntarily contracted; and which, therefore, had on me indispensible claims.
I acted from good motives, but no doubt, was guilty of some errors--yet, my conflicts were, even, more cruel than yours--I had not only to contend against my own sensibility, but against yours also.--The fire which is pent up burns the fiercest!'
--

He ceased to speak--a transient glow, which had lighted up his countenance, faded--exhausted, by the strong effort he had made, he sunk back--his eyes grew dim--they closed--_their last light beamed on me_!--I caught him in my arms--and--_he awoke no more_.
The spirits, that had hitherto supported me, suddenly subsided.
I uttered a piercing shriek, and sunk upon the body.
CHAPTER XXII

Many weeks passed of which I have no remembrance, they were a blank in my life--a long life of sorrow!
When restored to recollection, I found myself in my own chamber, my husband attending me.
It was a long time before I could clearly retrace the images of the past.
I learned--

'That I had been seized with a nervous fever, in consequence of having exerted myself beyond my strength; that my head had been disordered; that Mr Montague on his return, finding me in this situation, of which Mr Lucas had explained the causes, had been absorbed in deep affliction; that, inattentive to every other concern, he had scarcely quitted my apartment; that my child had been sent out to nurse; and that my recovery had been despaired of.'
My constitution was impaired by these repeated shocks.
I continued several months in a low and debilitated state.--With returning reason, I recalled to my remembrance the charge which Augustus had consigned to me in his last moments.
I enquired earnestly for the pocket-book he had mentioned, and was informed, that, after his decease, it had been found, and its contents examined, which were a bank note of fifty pounds, some letters, and memorandums.
Among the letters was one from his brother, by which means they had learned his address, and had been enabled to transmit to him an account of the melancholy catastrophe, and to request his orders respecting the disposal of the body.
On the receipt of this intelligence, the younger Mr Harley had come immediately into ----shire, had received his brother's effects, and had his remains decently and respectfully interred in the town where the fatal accident had taken place, through which he was passing in his way to visit a friend.
As soon as I had strength to hold a pen, I wrote to this gentleman, mentioning the tender office which had been consigned to me; and requesting that the child, or children, of Mr Augustus Harley, might be consigned to my care.
To this letter I received an answer, in a few days, hinting--

'That the marriage of my deceased friend had not been more imprudent than unfortunate; that he had struggled with great difficulties and many sorrows; that his wife had been dead near a twelve-month; that he had lost two of his children, about the same period, with the small-pox, one only surviving, the younger, a son, a year and a half old; that it was, at present, at nurse, under his (his brother's) protection; that his respect for me, and knowledge of my friendship for their family, added to his wish of complying with every request of his deceased brother, prevented him from hesitating a moment respecting the propriety of yielding the child to my care; that it should be delivered to any person whom I should commission for the purpose; and that I might draw upon him for the necessary charges towards the support and education of his nephew.'
I mentioned to Mr Montague these particulars, with a desire of availing myself of his counsel and assistance on the occasion.
'You are free, madam,' he replied, with a cold and distant air, 'to act as you shall think proper; but you must excuse me from making myself responsible in this affair.'
I sighed deeply.
I perceived, but too plainly, that _a mortal blow was given to my tranquillity_; but I determined to persevere in what I considered to be my duty.
On the retrospect of my conduct, my heart acquitted me; and I endeavoured to submit, without repining, to my fate.
I was, at this period, informed by a faithful servant, who attended me during my illness, of what I had before but too truly conjectured--That in my delirium I had incessantly called upon the name of Augustus Harley, and repeated, at intervals, in broken language, the circumstances of our last tender and fatal interview: this, with some particulars related by Mr Lucas to Mr Montague on his return, had, it seems, at the time, inflamed the irascible passions of my husband, almost to madness.
His transports had subsided, by degrees, into gloomy reserve: he had watched me, till my recovery, with unremitting attention; since which his confidence and affection became, every day, more visibly alienated.
Self-respect suppressed my complaints--conscious of deserving, even more than ever, his esteem, I bore his caprice with patience, trusting that time, and my conduct, would restore him to reason, and awaken in his heart a sense of justice.
I sent for my babe from the house of the nurse, to whose care it had been confided during my illness, and placed the little Augustus in its stead.
'It is unnecessary, my friend, to say, that you were that lovely and interesting child.--Oh!
with what emotion did I receive, and press, you to my care-worn bosom; retracing in your smiling countenance the features of your unfortunate father!
Adopting you for my own, I divided my affection between you and my Emma.
Scarce a day passed that I did not visit the cottage of your nurse.
I taught you to call me by the endearing name of _mother_!
I delighted to see you caress my infant with fraternal tenderness--I endeavoured to cherish this growing affection, and found a sweet relief from my sorrows in these tender, maternal, cares.'
CHAPTER XXIII

My health being considerably injured, I had taken a young woman into my house, to assist me in the nursery, and in other domestic offices.
She was in her eighteenth year--simple, modest, and innocent.
This girl had resided with me for some months.
I had been kind to her, and she seemed attached to me.
One morning, going suddenly into Mr Montague's dressing-room, I surprised Rachel sitting on a sopha with her master:--he held her hand in his, while his arm was thrown round her waist; and they appeared to be engaged in earnest conversation.
They both started, on my entrance:--Unwilling to encrease their confusion, I quitted the room.
Montague, on our meeting at dinner, affected an air of unconcern; but there was an apparent constraint in his behaviour.
I preserved towards him my accustomed manner, till the servants had withdrawn.
I then mildly expostulated with him on the impropriety of his behaviour.
His replies were not more unkind than ungenerous--they pierced my heart.
'It is well, sir, I am inured to suffering; but it is not of _myself_ that I would speak.
I have not deserved to lose your confidence--this is my consolation;--yet, I submit to it:--but I cannot see you act in a manner, that will probably involve you in vexation, and intail upon you remorse, without warning you of your danger.
Should you corrupt the innocence of this girl, she is emphatically _ruined_.
It is the strong mind only, that, firmly resting on its own powers, can sustain and recover itself amidst the world's scorn and injustice.
The morality of an uncultivated understanding, is that of _custom_, not of reason: break down the feeble barrier, and there is nothing to supply its place--you open the flood-gates of infamy and wretchedness.
Who can say where the evil may stop?'
'You are at liberty to discharge your servant, when you please, madam.'
'I think it my duty to do so, Mr Montague--not on my own, but on _her_, account.
If I have no claim upon your affection and principles, I would disdain to watch your conduct.
But I feel myself attached to this young woman, and would wish to preserve her from destruction!'
'You are very generous, but as you thought fit to bestow on me your _hand_, when your _heart_ was devoted to another--'

'It is enough, sir!--To your justice, only, in your cooler moments, would I appeal!'
I procured for Rachel a reputable place, in a distant part of the county.--Before she quitted me, I seriously, and affectionately, remonstrated with her on the consequences of her behaviour.
She answered me only with tears and blushes.
In vain I tried to rectify the principles, and subdue the cruel prejudices, of my husband.
I endeavoured to shew him every mark of affection and confidence.
I frequently expostulated with him, upon his conduct, with tears--urged him to respect himself and me--strove to convince him of the false principles upon which he acted--of the senseless and barbarous manner in which he was sacrificing my peace, and his own, to a romantic chimera.
Sometimes he would appear, for a moment, melted with my tender and fervent entreaties.
'Would to God!'
he would say, with emotion, 'the last six months of my life could be obliterated for ever from my remembrance!'
He was no longer active, and chearful: he would sit, for hours, involved in deep and gloomy silence.
When I brought the little Emma, to soften, by her engaging caresses, the anxieties by which his spirits appeared to be overwhelmed, he would gaze wildly upon her--snatch her to his breast--and then, suddenly throwing her from him, rush out of the house; and, inattentive to the duties of his profession, absent himself for days and nights together:--his temper grew, every hour, more furious and unequal.
He by accident, one evening, met the little Augustus, as his nurse was carrying him from my apartment; and, breaking rudely into the room, overwhelmed me with a torrent of abuse and reproaches.
I submitted to his injustice with silent grief--my spirits were utterly broken.
At times, he would seem to be sensible of the impropriety of his conduct--would execrate himself and entreat my forgiveness;--but quickly relapsed into his accustomed paroxysms, which, from having been indulged, were now become habitual, and uncontroulable.
These agitations seemed daily to encrease--all my efforts to regain his confidence--my patient, unremitted, attentions--were fruitless.
He shunned me--he appeared, even, to regard me with horror.
I wept in silence.
The hours which I passed with my children afforded me my only consolation--they became painfully dear to me.
Attending to their little sports, and innocent gambols, I forgot, for a moment, my griefs.
CHAPTER XXIV

Some months thus passed away, with little variation in my situation.
Returning home one morning, early, from the nurse's, where I had left my Emma with Augustus (whom I never, now, permitted to be brought to my own house) as I entered, Mr Montague shot suddenly by me, and rushed up stairs towards his apartment.
I saw him but transiently, as he passed; but his haggard countenance, and furious gestures, filled me with dismay.
He had been from home the preceding night; but to these absences I had lately been too much accustomed to regard them as any thing extraordinary.
I hesitated a few moments, whether I should follow him.
I feared, lest I might exasperate him by so doing; yet, the unusual disorder of his appearance gave me a thousand terrible and nameless apprehensions.
I crept toward the door of his apartment--listened attentively, and heard him walking up and down the room, with hasty steps--sometimes he appeared to stop, and groaned heavily:--once I heard him throw up the sash, and shut it again with violence.
I attempted to open the door, but, finding it locked, my terror increased.--I knocked gently, but could not attract his attention.
At length I recollected another door, that led to this apartment, through my own chamber, which was fastened on the outside, and seldom opened.
With trembling steps I hurried round, and, on entering the room, beheld him sitting at a table, a pen in his hand, and paper before him.
On the table lay his pistols--his hair was dishevelled--his dress disordered--his features distorted with emotion--while in his countenance was painted the extreme of horror and despair.
I uttered a faint shriek, and sunk into a chair.
He started from his seat, and, advancing towards me with hurried and tremulous steps, sternly demanded, Why I intruded on his retirement?
I threw myself at his feet,--I folded my arms round him--I wept--I deprecated his anger--I entreated to be heard--I said all that humanity, all that the most tender and lively sympathy could suggest, to inspire him with confidence--to induce him to relieve, by communication, the burthen which oppressed his heart.--He struggled to free himself from me--my apprehensions gave me strength--I held him with a strenuous grasp--he raved--he stamped--he tore his hair--his passion became frenzy!
At length, forcibly bursting from him, I fell on the floor, and the blood gushed from my nose and lips.
He shuddered convulsively--stood a few moments, as if irresolute--and, then, throwing himself beside me, raised me from the ground; and, clasping me to his heart, which throbbed tumultuously, burst into a flood of tears.
'I will not be thy _murderer_, Emma!'
said he, in a voice of agony, interrupted by heart-rending sobs--'I have had enough of blood!'
I tried to sooth him--I assured him I was not hurt--I besought him to confide his sorrows to the faithful bosom of his wife!
He appeared softened--his tears flowed without controul.
'Unhappy woman!--you know not what you ask!
To be ingenuous, belongs to purity like yours!--Guilt, black as hell!--conscious, aggravated, damnable, guilt!--_Your fatal attachment_--my accursed jealousy!--Ah!
Emma!
I have injured you--but you are, indeed, revenged!'
Every feature seemed to work--seemed pregnant with dreadful meaning--he was relapsing into frenzy.
'Be calm, my friend--be not unjust to yourself--you can have committed no injury that I shall not willingly forgive--you are incapable of persisting in guilt.
The ingenuous mind, that avows, has already made half the reparation.
Suffer me to learn the source of your inquietude!
I may find much to extenuate--I may be able to convince you, that you are too severe to yourself.'
'Never, never, never!--nothing can extenuate--_the expiation must be made_!--Excellent, admirable, woman!--Remember, without hating, the wretch who has been unworthy of you--who could not conceive, who knew not how to estimate, your virtues!--Oh!--do not--do not'--straining me to his bosom--'curse my memory!'
He started from the ground, and, in a moment, was out of sight.
I raised myself with difficulty--faint, tottering, gasping for breath, I attempted to descend the stairs.
I had scarcely reached the landing-place, when a violent knocking at the door shook my whole frame.
I stood still, clinging to the balustrade, unable to proceed.
I heard a chaise draw up--a servant opening the door--a plain-looking countryman alighted, and desired instantly to speak to the lady of the house--his business was, he said, of life and death!
I advanced towards him, pale and trembling!
'What is the matter, my friend--whence came you?'
'I cannot stop, lady, to explain myself--you must come with me--I will tell you more as we go along.'
'Do you come,' enquired I, in a voice scarcely articulate, 'from my husband?'
'No--no--I come from a person who is dying, who has somewhat of consequence to impart to you--Hasten, lady--there is no time to lose!'
'Lead, then, I follow you.'
He helped me into the chaise, and we drove off with the rapidity of lightning.
CHAPTER XXV

I asked no more questions on the road, but attempted to fortify my mind for the scenes which, I foreboded, were approaching.
After about an hour's ride, we stopped at a small, neat, cottage, embosomed in trees, standing alone, at a considerable distance from the high-road.
A decent-looking, elderly, woman, came to the door, at the sound of the carriage, and assisted me to alight.
In her countenance were evident marks of perturbation and horror.
I asked for a glass of water; and, having drank it, followed the woman, at her request, up stairs.
She seemed inclined to talk, but I gave her no encouragement--I knew not what awaited me, nor what exertions might be requisite--I determined not to exhaust my spirits unnecessarily.
On entering a small chamber, I observed a bed, with the curtains closely drawn.
I advanced towards it, and, unfolding them, beheld the unhappy Rachel lying in a state of apparent insensibility.
'She is dying,' whispered the woman, 'she has been in strong convulsions; but she could not die in peace without seeing Madam Montague, and obtaining her forgiveness.'
I approached the unfortunate girl, and took her lifeless hand.--A feeble pulse still trembled--I gazed upon her, for some moments, in silence.--She heaved a deep sigh--her lips moved, inarticulately.
She, at length, opened her eyes, and, fixing them upon me, the blood seemed to rush through her languid frame--reanimating it.
She sprung up in the bed, and, clasping her hands together, uttered a few incoherent words.
'Be pacified, my dear--I am not angry with you--I feel only pity.'
She looked wildly.
'Ah!
my dear lady, I am a wicked girl--but not--Oh, no!--_not a murderer!_ I did not--indeed, I did not--murder my child!'
A cold tremor seized me--I turned heart-sick--a sensation of horror thrilled through my veins!
'My dear, my kind mistress,' resumed the wretched girl, 'can you forgive me?--Oh!
that cruel, barbarous, man!--It was _he_ who did it--indeed, it was _he_ who did it!'
Distraction glared in her eyes.
'I do forgive you,' said I, in broken accents.
'I will take care of you--but you must be calm.'
'I will--I will'--replied she, in a rapid tone of voice--'but do not send me to prison--_I did not murder it!_--Oh!
my child, my child!'
continued she, in a screaming tone of frantic violence, and was again seized with strong convulsions.
We administered all the assistance in our power.
I endeavoured, with success, to stifle my emotions in the active duties of humanity.
Rachel once more revived.
After earnestly commending her to the care of the good woman of the house, and promising to send medicines and nourishment proper for her situation, and to reward their attentions--desiring that she might be kept perfectly still, and not be suffered to talk on subjects that agitated her--I quitted the place, presaging but too much, and not having, at that time, the courage to make further enquiries.
CHAPTER XXVI

On entering my own house my heart misgave me.
I enquired, with trepidation, for my husband, and was informed--'That he had returned soon after my departure, and had shut himself in his apartment; that, on being followed by Mr Lucas, he had turned fiercely upon him, commanding him, in an imperious tone, instantly to leave him; adding, he had affairs of importance to transact; and should any one dare to intrude on him, it would be at the peril of their lives.'
All the family appeared in consternation, but no one had presumed to disobey the orders of their master.--They expressed their satisfaction at my return--Alas!
I was impotent to relieve the apprehensions which, I too plainly perceived, had taken possession of their minds.
I retired to my chamber, and, with a trembling hand, traced, and addressed to my husband, a few incoherent lines--briefly hinting my suspicions respecting the late transactions--exhorting him to provide for his safety, and offering to be the companion of his flight.
I added--'Let us reap wisdom from these tragical consequences of _indulged passion_!
It is not to atone for the past error, by cutting off the prospect of future usefulness--Repentance for what can never be recalled, is absurd and vain, but as it affords a lesson for the time to come--do not let us wilfully forfeit the fruits of our dear-bought experience!
I will never reproach you!
Virtuous resolution, and time, may yet heal these aggravated wounds.
Dear Montague, be no longer the slave of error; inflict not on my tortured mind new, and more insupportable, terrors!
I await your directions--let us fly--let us summon our fortitude--let us, at length, bravely stem the tide of passion--let us beware of the criminal pusillanimity of despair!'
With faultering steps, I sought the apartment of my husband.
I listened a moment at the door--and hearing him in motion, while profound sighs burst every instant from his bosom, I slid my paper under the door, unfolded, that it might be the more likely to attract his attention.
Presently, I had the satisfaction of hearing him take it up.
After some minutes, a slip of paper was returned, by the same method which I had adopted, in which was written, in characters blotted, and scarcely legible, the following words--

'Leave me, one half hour, to my reflections: at the end of that period, be assured, I will see, or write, to you.'
I knew him to be incapable of falsehood--my heart palpitated with hope.
I went to my chamber, and passed the interval in a thousand cruel reflections, and vague plans for our sudden departure.
Near an hour had elapsed, when the bell rang.
I started, breathless, from my seat.
A servant passed my door, to take his master's orders.
He returned instantly, and, meeting me in the passage, delivered to me a letter.
I heard Montague again lock the door.--Disappointed, I re-entered my chamber.
In my haste to get at the contents of the paper, I almost tore it in pieces--the words swam before my sight.
I held it for some moments in my hand, incapable of decyphering the fatal characters.
I breathed with difficulty--all the powers of life seemed suspended--when the report of a pistol roused me to a sense of confused horror.--Rushing forward, I burst, with preternatural strength, into the apartment of my husband--What a spectacle!--Assistance was vain!--Montague--the impetuous, ill-fated, Montague--_was no more--was a mangled corpse_!--Rash, unfortunate, young, man!
But, why should I harrow up your susceptible mind, by dwelling on these cruel scenes?
_Ah!
suffer me to spread a veil over this fearful catastrophe!_ Some time elapsed ere I had fortitude to examine the paper addressed to me by my unfortunate husband.
Its contents, which were as follows, affected me with deep and mingled emotions.
TO MRS MONTAGUE.
'Amidst the reflections which press, by turns, upon my       burning brain, an obscure consciousness of the prejudices       upon which my character has been formed, is not the least       torturing--because I feel the _inveterate force of habit_--I       feel, that my convictions come too late!
'I have destroyed myself, and you, dearest, most generous,       and most unfortunate, of women!
I am a monster!--I have       seduced innocence, and embrued my hands in blood!--Oh,       God!--Oh, God!--_'Tis there distraction lies!_--I would,       circumstantially, retrace my errors; but my disordered mind,       and quivering hand, refuse the cruel task--yet, it is       necessary that I should attempt a brief sketch.
'After the cruel accident, which destroyed our tranquillity,       I nourished my senseless jealousies (the sources of       which I need not, now, recapitulate), till I persuaded       myself--injurious wretch that I was!--that I had been       perfidiously and ungenerously treated.
Stung by false pride,       I tried to harden my heart, and foolishly thirsted for       revenge.
Your meekness, and magnanimity, disappointed me.--I       would willingly have seen you, not only suffer the PANGS,       but express the _rage_, of a slighted wife.
The simple       victim of my baseness, by the artless affection she       expressed for me, gained an ascendency over my mind; and,       when you removed her from your house, we still contrived, at       times, to meet.
The consequences of our intercourse could       not long be concealed.
It was, then, that I first began       to open my eyes on my conduct, and to be seized with       remorse!--Rachel, now, wept incessantly.
Her father, she       told me, was a stern and severe man; and should he hear of       her misconduct, would, she was certain, be her destruction.
I procured for her an obscure retreat, to which I removed       the unhappy girl [Oh, how degrading is vice!
], under false       pretences.
I exhorted her to conceal her situation--to       pretend, that her health was in a declining state--and I       visited her, from time to time, as in my profession.
'This poor young creature continued to bewail the disgrace       she anticipated--her lamentations pierced my soul!
I       recalled to my remembrance your emphatic caution.
I foresaw       that, with the loss of her character, this simple girl's       misfortune and degradation would be irretrievable; and I       could, now, plainly distinguish the morality of _rule_ from       that of _principle_.
Pursuing this train of reasoning, I       entangled myself, for my views were not yet sufficiently       clear and comprehensible!
Bewildered, amidst contending       principles--distracted by a variety of emotions--in seeking       a remedy for one vice, I plunged (as is but too common),       into others of a more scarlet dye.
With shame and horror, I       confess, I repeatedly tried, by medical drugs, to procure       an abortive birth: the strength and vigour of Rachel's       constitution defeated this diabolical purpose.
Foiled in       these attempts, I became hardened, desperate, and       barbarous!
'Six weeks before the allotted period, the infant saw the       light--for a moment--to close its eyes on it for ever!
I, only, was with the unhappy mother.
I had formed no       deliberate purpose--I had not yet arrived at the acme of       guilt--but, perceiving, from the babe's premature birth, and       the consequences of the pernicious potions which had been       administered to the mother, that the vital flame played       but feebly--that life was but as a quivering, uncertain,       spark--a sudden and terrible thought darted through my mind.
I know not whether my emotion betrayed me to the ear of       Rachel--but, suddenly throwing back the curtain of the bed,       she beheld me grasp--with savage ferocity--_with murderous       hands_!--Springing from the bed, and throwing herself upon       me--her piercing shrieks--

'_I can no more_--of the rest you seem, from whatever means,       but too well informed!
I need not say--protect, if she survive, the miserable       mother!--To you, whose heavenly goodness I have so ill       requited, it would be injurious as unnecessary!
I read, too       late, the heart I have insulted!
'I have settled the disposal of my effects--I have commanded       my feelings to give you this last, sad, proof of my       confidence.--_Kneeling_, I entreat your forgiveness for the       sufferings I have caused you!
I found your heart wounded--and       into those festering wounds I infused a deadly venom--curse       not my memory--_We meet no more_.
'Farewel!
first, and last, and only, beloved of women!--a       long--a long farewel!
'MONTAGUE.'
These are the consequences of confused systems of morals--and thus it is, that minds of the highest hope, and fairest prospect, are blasted!
CHAPTER XXVII

The unhappy Rachel recovered her health by slow degrees.
I had determined, when my affairs were settled, to leave a spot, that had been the scene of so many tragical events.
I proposed to the poor girl to take her again into my family, to which she acceded with rapture.
She has never since quitted me, and her faithful services, and humble, grateful attachment, have repaid my protection an hundred fold.
Mr Montague left ten thousand pounds, the half of which was settled on his daughter, the remainder left to my disposal.
This determined me to adopt you wholly for my son.
I wrote to your uncle to that purport, taking upon myself the entire charge of your education, and entreating, that you might never know, unless informed by myself, to whom you owed your birth.
That you should continue to think me _your mother_, flattered my tenderness, nor was my Emma, herself, more dear to me.
I retired in a few months to my present residence, sharing my heart and my attentions between my children, who grew up under my fostering care, lovely and beloved.
'While every day, soft as it roll'd along,    Shew'd some new charm.'
I observed your affection for each other with a flattering presage.
With the features of your father, you inherited his intrepidity, and manly virtues--even, at times, I thought I perceived the seeds of his inflexible spirit; but the caresses of my Emma, more fortunate than her mother--yet, with all her mother's sensibility--could, in an instant, soften you to tenderness, and melt you into infantine sweetness.
I endeavoured to form your young minds to every active virtue, to every generous sentiment.--You received, from the same masters, the same lessons, till you attained your twelfth year; and my Emma emulated, and sometimes outstripped your progress.
I observed, with a mixture of hope and solicitude, her lively capacity--her enthusiastic affections; while I laboured to moderate and regulate them.
It now became necessary that your educations should take a somewhat different direction; I wished to fit you for a commercial line of life; but the ardor you discovered for science and literature occasioned me some perplexity, as I feared it might unfit you for application to trade, in the pursuit of which so many talents are swallowed up, and powers wasted.
Yet, as to the professions my objections were still more serious.--The study of law, is the study of chicanery.--The church, the school of hypocrisy and usurpation!
You could only enter the universities by a moral degradation, that must check the freedom, and contaminate the purity, of the mind, and, entangling it in an inexplicable maze of error and contradiction, _poison virtue at its source_, and lay the foundation for a duplicity of character and a perversion of reason, destructive of every manly principle of integrity.
For the science of physic you expressed a disinclination.
A neighbouring gentleman, a surveyor, a man high in his profession, and of liberal manners, to whose friendship I was indebted, offered to take you.
You were delighted with this proposal, (to which I had no particular objection) as you had a taste for drawing and architecture.
Our separation, though you were to reside in the same town, cost us many tears--I loved you with more than a mother's fondness--and my Emma clung round the neck of her beloved brother, her Augustus, her playfellow, and sobbed on his bosom.
It was with difficulty that you could disentangle yourself from our embraces.
Every moment of leisure you flew to us--my Emma learned from you to draw plans, and to study the laws of proportion.
Every little exuberance in your disposition, which, generated by a noble pride, sometimes wore the features of asperity, was soothed into peace by her gentleness and affection: while she delighted to emulate your fortitude, and to rise superior to the feebleness fostered in her sex, under the specious name of delicacy.
Your mutual attachment encreased with your years, I renewed my existence in my children, and anticipated their more perfect union.
Ah!
my son, need I proceed?
Must I continually blot the page with the tale of sorrow?
Can I tear open again, can I cause to bleed afresh, in your heart and my own, wounds scarcely closed?
In her fourteenth year, in the spring of life, your Emma and mine, lovely and fragile blossom, was blighted by a killing frost--After a few days illness, she drooped, faded, languished, and died!
It was now that I felt--'That no agonies were like the agonies of a mother.'
My broken spirits, from these repeated sorrows, sunk into habitual, hopeless, dejection.
Prospects, that I had meditated with ineffable delight, were for ever veiled in darkness.
Every earthly tie was broken, except that which bound you to my desolated heart with a still stronger cord of affection.
You wept, in my arms, the loss of her whom you, yet, fondly believed your sister.--I cherished the illusion lest, by dissolving it, I should weaken your confidence in my maternal love, weaken that tenderness which was now my only consolation.
TO AUGUSTUS HARLEY.
My Augustus, _my more than son_, around whom my spirit,       longing for dissolution, still continues to flutter!
I have       unfolded the errors of my past life--I have traced them to       their source--I have laid bare my mind before you, that the       experiments which have been made upon it may be beneficial       to yours!
It has been a painful, and a humiliating       recital--the retrospection has been marked with anguish.
As       the enthusiasm--as the passions of my youth--have passed in       review before me, long forgotten emotions have been revived       in my lacerated heart--it has been again torn with _the       pangs of contemned love_--the disappointment of rational       plans of usefulness--the dissolution of the darling hopes of       maternal pride and fondness.
The frost of a premature age       sheds its snows upon my temples, the ravages of a sickly       mind shake my tottering frame.
The morning dawns, the       evening closes upon me, the seasons revolve, without hope;       the sun shines, the spring returns, but, to me, it is       mockery.
And is this all of human life--this, that passes like a tale       that is told?
Alas!
it is a tragical tale!
Friendship was       the star, whose cheering influence I courted to beam upon my       benighted course.
The social affections were necessary to my       existence, but they have been only inlets to sorrow--_yet,       still, I bind them to my heart_!
Hitherto there seems to have been something strangely wrong       in the constitutions of society--a lurking poison that       spreads its contagion far and wide--a canker at the root       of private virtue and private happiness--a principle of       deception, that sanctifies error--a Circean cup that lulls       into a fatal intoxication.
But men begin to think and       reason; reformation dawns, though the advance is tardy.
Moral martyrdom may possibly be the fate of those who       press forward, yet, their generous efforts will not be       lost.--Posterity will plant the olive and the laurel, and       consecrate their mingled branches to the memory of such,       who, daring to trace, to their springs, errors the most       hoary, and prejudices the most venerated, emancipate the       human mind from the trammels of superstition, and teach it,       _that its true dignity and virtue, consist in being free_.
Ere I sink into the grave, let me behold the _son of my       affections_, the living image of him, whose destiny involved       mine, who gave an early, but a mortal blow, to all my       worldly expectations--let me behold my Augustus, escaped       from the tyranny of the passions, restored to reason, to       the vigor of his mind, to self controul, to the dignity of       active, intrepid virtue!
The dawn of my life glowed with the promise of a fair and       bright day; before its noon, thick clouds gathered; its       mid-day was gloomy and tempestuous.--It remains with thee,       my friend, to gild with a mild radiance the closing evening;       before the scene shuts, and veils the prospect in       impenetrable darkness.
