CHAPTER I

Mrs. Ackroyde had a pretty little house in Upper Grosvenor Street, but she spent a good deal of her time in a country house which she had bought at Coombe close to London.
She was always there from Saturday to Monday, when she was not paying visits or abroad, and Coombe Hall, as her place was called, was a rallying ground for members of the “old guard.” Invariably guests came down on the Sunday to lunch and tea.
Bridge was the great attraction for some.
For others there were lawn tennis and golf.
And often there was good music.
For Mrs. Ackroyde was an excellent musician as well as an ardent card-player.
Lady Sellingworth had occasionally been to Coombe Hall, but for several years now she had ceased from going there.
She did not care to show her white hair and lined face in Mrs. Ackroyde’s rooms, which were always thronged with women she knew too well and with men who had ceased from admiring her.
And she was no longer deeply interested in the gossip of a world in which formerly she had been one of the ruling spirits.
She was, therefore, rather surprised at receiving a note from Mrs. Ackroyde soon after her return from Geneva urging her to motor to Coombe on the following Sunday for lunch.
“I suppose there will be the usual crowd,” Mrs. Ackroyde wrote.
“And I’ve asked Alick Craven and two or three who don’t often come.
What do you think of Beryl Van Tuyn’s transformation into an heiress?
I hear she’s come into over three million dollars.
I suppose she’ll be more unconventional than ever now.
Minnie Birchington met her just after her father’s death, in fact the very day his death was announced in the papers.
She’d just been to tea with a marvellously good-looking man called something Arabian, who has taken a flat in Rose Tree Gardens opposite to Minnie’s.
Evidently this is the newest way of going into deep mourning.”

Lady Sellingworth hesitated for some time before answering this note.
Probably, indeed almost certainly, she would have refused the invitation but for the last three sentences about Beryl Van Tuyn.
She did not want to see the girl again, for she could not help hating her.
She had, of course, sent a note of sympathy to Claridge’s, and had received an affectionate reply, which she had torn up and burnt after reading it.
But she had not gone to tell her regret at this death to Beryl, and Beryl had expressed no wish to see her.
In her heart Lady Sellingworth hated humbug, and she knew, of course, that any pretence of real friendship between Beryl and her would be humbug in an acute form.
She might in the future sometimes have to pretend, but she was resolved not to rush upon insincerity.
If Beryl sought her out again she would play her part of friend gallantly to conceal her wounds.
But she would certainly not seek out Beryl.
She had not seen Craven since her return to London.
In spite of her anger against him, which was complicated by a feeling of almost contemptuous disgust, she longed to see him again.
Each day, when she had sat in her drawing-room in the late afternoon and had heard Murgatroyd’s heavy step outside and the opening of the door, her heart beat fast, and she had thought, “Can it be he?” Each day, after the words “Sir Seymour Portman!” her heart had sunk and she had felt bitter and weary.
And now came this invitation, putting it in her power to meet Craven again naturally.
Should she go?
She read Dindie Ackroyde’s note once more carefully, and a strange feeling stung her.
She had been angry with Beryl for being fond of Craven.
(For she had supposed a real fondness in Beryl.)
Now she was angry with Beryl for a totally different reason.
It was evident to her that Beryl was behaving badly to Craven.
As she looked at the note in her hand she remembered a conversation in a box at the theatre.
Arabian!
That was the name of the man Dick Garstin was painting, or had been painting.
Dindie Ackroyde called him “Something Arabian.” Lady Sellingworth’s mind supplied the other name.
It was Nicolas.
Beryl had described him as “a living bronze.”

She had gone out to tea with him in a flat on the day her father’s sudden death had been announced in the papers.
And yet she had pretended that she was hovering on the verge of love for Alick Craven.
She had even implied that she was thinking of marrying him.
Lady Sellingworth saw Beryl as a treacherous lover, as well as an unkind friend and a heartless daughter, and suddenly her anger against Craven died in pity.
She had believed for a little while that she hated him, but now she longed to protect him from pain, to comfort him, to make him happy, as surely she had once made him happy, if only for an hour or two.
She forgot her pride and her sense of injury in a sudden rush of feeling that was new to her, that perhaps, really, had something of motherliness in it.
And she sat down quickly and wrote an acceptance to Mrs. Ackroyde.
When Sunday came she felt excited and eager, absurdly so for a woman of sixty.
But her secret diffidence troubled her.
She looked into her mirror and thought of the piercing eyes of the “old guard,” of those merciless and horribly intelligent women who had marked with amazement her sudden collapse into old age ten years ago, who would mark with a perhaps even greater amazement this bizarre attempt at a partial return towards what she had once been.
And what would Alick Craven think?
Nevertheless she put a little more red on her lips, called her maid, had something done to her hair.
“It has been a great success!” said the little Frenchwoman.
“Miladi looks wonderful to-day.
Black and white is much better than unrelieved black for miladi.
And the _soupcon_ of blue on the hat and in the earrings of miladi lights up the whole personality.
Miladi never did a wiser thing than when she visited Switzerland.”

“You think not, Cecile?”

“Indeed yes, miladi.
There is no specialist even in Paris like Monsieur Paulus.
And as to the Doctor Lavallois, he is a marvel.
Every woman who is no longer a girl should go to him.”

Lady Sellingworth picked up a big muff and went down to the motor, leaving Cecile smiling behind her.
As she disappeared down the stairs Cecile, who was on the bright side of thirty, with a smooth, clear skin and chestnut-coloured hair, pushed out her under-lip slowly and shook her head.
“_La vieillesse!_” she murmured.
“_La vieillesse amoureuse!
Quelle horreur!_”

Lady Sellingworth had never given the maid any confidence about her secret reasons for doing this or that.
But Cecile was a Parisian.
She fully understood the reason for their visit to Geneva.
Miladi had fallen in love.
Lady Sellingworth’s excitement increased as she drove towards Coombe.
It was complicated by a feeling of shyness.
To herself she said that she was like an old debutante.
She had been out of the world for so long, and now she was venturing once more among the merciless women of the world that never rests from amusing itself, from watching the lives of others, from gossiping about them, from laughing at them.
She had been a leader of this world until she had denied it, had shut herself away from it.
And now she was venturing back--because of a man.
As she drove on swiftly through the wintry and dull-looking streets, streets that seemed to grow meaner, more dingy, more joyless, as she drew near to the outskirts of London, she looked back over the past.
And she saw always the same reason for the important actions of her life.
All of them had been committed because of a man.
And now, even at sixty--Presently she saw by the look of the landscape that she was nearing Coombe, and she drew a little mirror out of her muff and gazed into it anxiously.
“What will they say?
What will he think?
What will happen to me to-day?”

The car turned into a big gravel sweep between tall, red-brick walls, and drew up before Mrs. Ackroyde’s door.
In the long drawing-room, with its four windows opening on to a terrace, from which Coombe Woods could be seen sunk in the misty winter, Lady Sellingworth found many cheerful people whom she knew.
Mrs. Ackroyde gave her blunt, but kindly, greeting, with her strange eyes, fierce and remote, yet notably honest, taking in at a glance the results of Geneva.
Lady Wrackley was there in an astonishing black hat trimmed with bird of paradise plumes.
Glancing about her while she still spoke to Dindie Ackroyde carelessly, Lady Sellingworth saw young Leving; Sir Robert Syng; the Duchess of Wellingborough, shaking her broad shoulders and tossing up her big chin as she laughed at some joke; Jennie Farringdon, with her puffy pale cheeks and parrot-like nose, talking to old Hubert Mostine, the man of innumerable weddings, funerals and charity fetes, with his blinking eyelids and moustaches that drooped over a large and gossiping mouth; Magdalen Dearing, whose Mona Lisa smile had attracted three generations of men, and who had managed to look sad and be riotous for at least four decades; Francis Braybrooke, pulling at his beard; Mrs. Birchington; Lady Anne Smith, wiry, cock-nosed, brown, ugly, but supremely smart and self-assured; Eve Colton, painted like a wall, and leaning, with an old hand blazing with jewels, on a stick with a jade handle; Mrs. Dews, the witty actress, with her white, mobile face, and the large irresponsible eyes which laughed at herself, the critics and the world; Lord Alfred Craydon, thin, high church and political, who loved pretty women but receded farther and farther from marriage as the years spun by; and Lady Twickenham, a French _poupee_; and Julian Lamberhurst, the composer, who looked as if he had grown up to his six foot four in one night, like the mustard seed; and Hilary Lane, the friend of poets; and--how many more!
For Dindie Ackroyde loved to gather a crowd for lunch, and had a sort of physical love of noise and human complications.
At the far end of the room there was a section which was raised a few inches above the rest.
Here stood two Steinway grand pianos, tail to tail, their dark polished cases shining soberly in the pale light of November.
There were some deep settees on this species of dais, and, looking towards it, over the heads of the crowd in the lower part of the room, Lady Sellingworth saw Craven again.
He was sitting beside a pretty girl, whom Lady Sellingworth did not know, and talking.
His face looked hard and bored, but he was leaning towards the girl as if trying to seem engrossed, intent, on the conversation and on her.
Francis Braybrooke came up.
Lady Sellingworth was busy, greeting and being greeted.
Once more she made part of the regiment.
But the ranks were broken.
There was no review order here.
Only for an instant had she been aware of formality, of the “eyes right” atmosphere--when she had entered the room.
Then the old voices hummed about her.
And she saw the well-known and experienced eyes examining her.
And she had to listen and to answer, to be charming, to “hold her own.”

“I’m putting Alick Craven next to you at lunch, Adela.
I know you and he are pals.
He’s over there with Lily Bright.”

“And who is Lily Bright?” said Lady Sellingworth in her most offhand way.
“A dear little New Englander, Knickerbocker to the bone.”

She turned away composedly to meet another guest.
Francis Braybrooke began to talk to Lady Sellingworth, and almost immediately Lady Wrackley and Mrs. Birchington joined them.
“How marvellous you look, Adela!” said Lady Wrackley, staring with her birdlike eyes.
“You will cut us all out.
I must go to Geneva.
Have you heard about Beryl?
But of course you have.
She was so delighted at coming into a fortune that she rushed away to Rose Tree Gardens to celebrate the event with a man without even waiting till she had got her mourning.
Didn’t she, Minnie?”

Francis Braybrooke was looking shocked.
“I cannot believe that Miss Van Tuyn--” he began.
But Mrs. Birchington interrupted him.
“But I was there!” she said.
“I beg your pardon!” said Braybrooke.
“It was the very day the death of her father was in the evening papers.
I came back from the club with the paper in my hand, and met Beryl Van Tuyn getting out of the lift in Rose Tree Gardens with the man who lives opposite to me.
She absolutely looked embarrassed.”

“Impossible!” said Lady Wrackley.
“She couldn’t!”

“I assure you she did!
But she introduced me to him.”

“She cannot have heard of her father’s death,” said Braybrooke.
“But she had!
For I expressed my sympathy and she thanked me.”

Braybrooke looked very ill at ease and glanced plaintively towards the place where Craven was sitting with the pretty American.
“No doubt she had been to visit old friends,” he said, “American friends.”

“But this man, Nicolas Arabian, lives alone in his flat.
And I’m sure he’s not an American.
Lady Archie has seen him several times with Beryl.”

“What’s he like?” asked Lady Wrackley.
“Marvellously handsome!
A _charmeur_ if ever there was one.
Beryl certainly had good taste, but--”

At this moment there was a general movement.
The butler had murmured to Mrs. Ackroyde that lunch was ready.
Lady Sellingworth was among the first few women who left the drawing-room, and was sitting at a round table in the big, stone-coloured dining-room when Baron de Melville, an habitue at Coombe, bent over her.
“I’m lucky enough to be beside you!” he said.
“This is a rare occasion.
One never meets you now.”

He sat down on her right.
The place on her left was vacant.
People were still coming in, talking, laughing, finding their seats.
The Duchess of Wellingborough, who was exactly opposite to Lady Sellingworth, leaned forward to speak to her.
“Adela .
.
.
Adela!”

“Yes?
How are you, Cora?”

“Very well, as I always am.
Isn’t Lavallois a marvel?”

“He is certainly very clever.”

“You are proud of it, my dear.
Have you heard what the Bolshevist envoy said to the Prime Minister when--”

But at this moment someone spoke to the duchess, who was already beginning to laugh at the story she was intending to tell and Lady Sellingworth was aware of a movement on her left.
She felt as if she blushed, though no colour came into her face.
“How are you, Lady Sellingworth?”

She had not turned her head, but now she did, and met Craven’s hard, uncompromising blue eyes and deliberately smiling lips.
“Oh, it’s you!
How nice!”

She gave him her hand.
He just touched it coldly.
What a boy he still was in his polite hostility!
She thought of Camber Sands and the darkness falling over the waste, and, in spite of her self-control and her pity for him, there was an unconquerable feeling of injury in her heart.
What reason, what right, had he to greet her so frigidly?
How had she injured him?
A roar of conversation had begun in the room.
Everyone seemed in high spirits.
Mrs. Ackroyde, who was at the same table as Lady Sellingworth, with Lord Alfred Craydon on her right and Sir Robert Syng on her left, looked steadily round over the multitude of her guests with a comprehensive glance, the analyzing and summing-up glance of one to whom everything social was as an open book containing no secrets which her eyes did not read.
Those eyes travelled calmly, and presently came to Craven and Adela Sellingworth.
She smiled faintly and spoke to Robert Syng.
“This is her second debut,” she said.
“I’m bringing her out again.
They are all amazed.”

“What about?” said Sir Robert, in his grim and very masculine voice.
“Bobbie, you know as well as I do.
I had a bet with Anne that she would accept.
I’m five pounds to the good.
Adela is a creature of impulses, and that sort of creature does young things to the day of its death.”

“Is it doing a young thing to accept a luncheon invitation from you?”

“Yes--for _her_ reason.”

“Well, that’s beyond me.”

“How indifferent you are!”

He looked at her in silence.
Lady Sellingworth talked to the baron till half-way through lunch.
He was a financier of rather obscure origin, long naturalized as an Englishman, and ardently patriotic.
The noble words “we British people”  were often upon his strangely foreign-looking lips.
Many years ago the “old guard” had taken him to their generous bosoms.
For he was enormously rich, and really not a bad sort.
And he had been clever enough to remain unmarried, so hope attended him with undeviating steps.
Miss Van Tuyn was presently the theme of his discourse.
Evidently he did not know anything about her and Alick Craven.
For he discussed her and her change of fortune without embarrassment or any _arriere pensee_, and he, too, spoke of the visit to Rose Tree Gardens.
Evidently all the Coombe set was full of this mysterious visit, paid to an Adonis whom nobody knew, in the shadow of a father’s death.
The baron greatly admired Miss Van Tuyn, not only for her beauty but for her daring.
And he was not at all shocked at what she had done.
“She never lived with her father.
Why should she pretend to be upset at his death?
The only difference it makes to her is an extremely agreeable one.
If she celebrates it by a mild revel over the tea cups with an exceptionally good-looking man, who is to blame her?
The fact is, we Britishers are all moral humbugs.
It seems to be in the blood,” etc.
He ran on with wholly un-English vivacity about Beryl and her wonderful man.
Everybody wished to know who he was and all about him, but he seemed to be a profound mystery.
Even Minnie Birchington, who lived opposite to him, knew little more than the rest of them.
Since she had been introduced to him she had never set eyes on him, although she knew from her maid that he was still in the flat opposite, which he had rented furnished for three months with an option for a longer period.
He had a Spanish manservant in the flat with him, but whether he, too, was Spanish Mrs. Birchington did not know.
Where had Beryl Van Tuyn picked him up, and how had she come to know him so well?
All the women were asking these questions.
And the men were intrigued because of the report, carried by Lady Archie, and enthusiastically confirmed by Mrs. Birchington, of the fellow’s extraordinary good looks.
Lady Sellingworth listened to all this with an air of polite, but rather detached, interest, wondering all the time whether Craven could overhear what was being said.
Craven was sometimes talking to his neighbour, Mrs. Farringdon, but occasionally their conversation dropped, and Lady Sellingworth was aware of his sitting in silence.
She wished, and yet almost feared, to talk to him, but she knew that she was interested in no one else in the room.
Now that she was again with Craven she realized painfully how much she had missed him.
Among all these people, many of them talented, clever, even fascinating, she was only concerned about him.
To her he seemed almost like a vital human being in the midst of a crowd of dummies endowed by some magic with the power of speech.
She only felt him at this moment, though she was conscious of the baron, Mrs. Ackroyde, Bobbie Syng, the duchess, and others who were near her.
This silent boy--he was still a boy in comparison with her--crumbling his bread, wiped them all out.
Yet he was no cleverer than they were, no more vital than they.
And half of her almost hated him still.
“Oh, why do I worry about him?” she thought, while she leaned towards the baron and looked energetically into his shifting dark eyes.
“What is there in him that holds me and tortures me?
He’s only an ordinary man--horribly ordinary, I know that.”

And she thought of Camber Sands and the twilight, and saw Craven seeking for Beryl’s hand--footman and housemaid.
What had she, Adela Sellingworth, with her knowledge and her past, her great burden of passionate experiences--what had she to do with such an ordinary young man?
“Nicolas might possibly be Greek or Russian.
But what are we to make of Arabian?”

It was still the voice of the Baron--full, energetic, intensely un-English.
“Have you heard the name before, Lady Sellingworth?”

“Yes,” she said.
“Really!
What country does it belong to?
Surely not to our England?”

“No.”

Craven was not speaking at this moment, and she felt that he was listening to them.
She remembered how Beryl had hurt her and, speaking with deliberate clearness, she added:

“Garstin, the painter, has had this man, Nicolas Arabian, as a sitter for a long time, certainly for a good many weeks.
And Beryl is just now intensely interested in portrait painting.”

“What--he’s a model!
But with a flat in Rose Tree Gardens!”

“He is evidently not an ordinary model.
I believe Mr. Garstin picked him up somewhere, saw him by chance, probably at the Cafe Royal or some place of that kind, and asked him to sit.”

“Do you know him?” asked the Baron, with sharp curiosity.
“Oh, no!
I have never set eyes upon him.
Beryl told me.”

“Miss Van Tuyn!
We all thought she was trying to keep the whole matter a secret.”

“Well, she told me quite openly.
You were there, weren’t you?”

She turned rather abruptly to Craven.
He started.
“What?
I beg your pardon.
I didn’t catch what you were saying.”

“He’s lying!” she thought.
The Baron was addressed by his neighbour, Magdalen Dearing, whose husband he was supposed, perhaps quite wrongly, to finance, and Lady Sellingworth was left free for a conversation with Craven.
“We were speaking about Beryl,” she began.
Suddenly she felt hard, and she wanted to punish Craven, as we only wish to punish those who can make us suffer because they have made us care for them.
“It seems that--they are all saying--”

She paused.
She wanted to repeat the scandalous gossip about Beryl’s visit to this mystery man, Arabian, immediately after her father’s death.
But she could not do it.
No, she could not punish him with such a dirty weapon.
He was worthy of polished steel, and this would be rusty scrap-iron.
“It’s nothing but stupid gossip,” she said.
“And you and I have never dealt in that together, have we?”

“Oh, I enjoy hearing about my neighbours,” he answered, “or I shouldn’t come here.”

She felt a sharp thrust of disappointment.
His voice was cold and full of detachment; the glance of his blue eyes was hard and unrelenting.
She had never seen him like this till to-day.
“What are they saying about Miss Van Tuyn?” he added.
“Anything amusing?”

“No.
And in any case it’s not the moment to talk nonsense about her, just when she is in deep mourning.”

With an almost bitter smile she continued, after a slight hesitation:

“There is a close time for game during which the guns must be patient.
There ought to be a close time for human beings in sorrow.
We ought not to fire at them all the year round.”

“What does it matter?
They fire at us all the year round.
The carnage is mutual.”

“Have you turned cynic?”

“I don’t think I was ever a sentimentalist.”

“Perhaps not.
But must one be either the one or the other?”

“I am quite sure you are not the latter.”

“I should be sorry to be the former,” she said, with unusual earnestness.
Something in his voice made her suddenly feel very sad, with a coldness of sorrow that was like frost binding her heart.
She looked across the big table.
A long window was opposite to her.
Through it she saw distant tree-tops rising into the misty grey sky.
And she thought of the silence of the bare woods, so near and yet so remote.
Why was life so heartless?
Why could not he and she understand each other?
Why had she nothing to rest on?
Winter!
She had entered into her winter, irrevocable, cold and leafless.
But the longing for warmth would not leave her.
Winter was terrible to her, would always be terrible.
How the Duchess of Wellingborough was laughing!
Her broad shoulders shook.
She threw up her chin and showed her white teeth.
To her life was surely a splendid game, even in widowhood and old age.
The crowd was enough for her.
She fed on good stories.
And so no doubt she would never go hungry.
For a moment Lady Sellingworth thought that she envied the Duchess.
But then something deep down in her knew it was not so.
To need much--that is greater and better, even if the need brings that sorrow which perhaps many know nothing of.
At that moment she connected desire with aspiration, and felt released from her lowest part.
Craven was speaking to Mrs. Farringdon; Lady Sellingworth heard her saying, in her curiously muffled, contralto voice:

“Old Bean is a wonderful horse.
I fancy him for the next Derby.
But some people say he is not a stayer.
On a hard course he might crack up.
Still, he’s got a good deal of bone.
The Farnham stable is absolutely rotten at present.
Don’t go near it.”

“Oh, why did I come?” Lady Sellingworth thought, as she turned again to the Baron.
She had lost the habit of the world in her long seclusion.
In her retreat she had developed into a sentimentalist.
Or perhaps she had always been one, and old age had made the tendency more definite, had fixed her in the torturing groove.
She began to feel terribly out of place in this company, but she knew that she did not look out of place.
She had long ago mastered the art of appearance, and could never forget that cunning.
And she gossiped gaily with the Baron until luncheon at last was over.
As she went towards the drawing-room Mrs. Ackroyde joined her.
“You were rather unkind to Alick Craven, Adela,” she murmured.
“Has he offended you?”

“On the contrary.
I think he’s a charming boy.”

“Don’t punish him all the afternoon then.”

“But I am not going to be here all the afternoon.
I have ordered the car for half-past three.”

“It’s that now.”

“Well, then I must be going almost directly.”

“You must stay for tea.
A lot of people are coming, and we shall have music.
Alick Craven only accepted because I told him you would be here.”

“But you told me he had accepted when you asked me.”

“That’s how I do things when I really want people who may not want to come.
I lied to both of you, and here you both are.”

“Well at any rate you are honest in confession.”

“I will counterorder your car.
Henry, please tell Lady Sellingworth’s chauffeur that he will be sent for when he is wanted.
Oh, Anne, welcome the wandering sheep back to the social fold!”

She threaded her way slowly through the crowd, talking calmly to one and another, seeing everything, understanding everything, tremendously at home in the midst of complications.
Lady Sellingworth talked to Lady Anne, who had just come back from Mexico.
It was her way to dart about the world, leaving her husband in his arm-chair at the Marlborough.
She brought gossip with her from across the seas, gossip about exotic Presidents and their mistresses, about revolutionary generals and explorers, about opera singers in Havana, and great dancers in the Argentine.
In her set she was called “the peripatetic pug,” but she had none of the pug’s snoring laziness.
Presently someone took her away to play bridge, and for a moment Lady Sellingworth was standing alone.
She was close to a great window which gave on to the terrace at the back of the house facing the falling gardens and the woods.
She looked out, then looked across the room.
Craven was standing near the door.
He had just come in with a lot of men from the dining-room.
He had a cigar in his hand.
His cheeks were flushed.
He looked hot and drawn, like a man in a noisy prison of heat which excited him, but tormented him too.
His eyes shone almost feverishly.
As she looked at him, not knowing that he was being watched he drew a long breath, almost like a man who feared suffocation.
Immediately afterwards he glanced across the room and saw her.
She beckoned to him.
With a reluctant air, and looking severe, he came across to her.
“Are you going to play bridge?” she said.
“I don’t think so.”

“Dindie has persuaded me to stay on for the music.
Shall we take a little walk in the garden?
I am so unaccustomed to crowds that I am longing for air.”

She paused, then added:

“And a little quiet.”

“Certainly,” he said stiffly.
“Does he hate me?” she thought, with a sinking of despair.
He went to fetch her wrap.
They met in the hall.
“Where are you two going?”

Dindie Ackroyde’s all-seeing eyes had perceived them.
“Only to get a breath of air in the garden,” said Lady Sellingworth.
“How sensible!”

She gave them a watchful smile and spoke to Eve Colton, who was hunting for the right kind of bridge, stick in hand.
“I’ll find Melville for you.
Jennie and Sir Arthur are waiting in the card-room.”

“I hope you don’t mind coming out for a moment?”

Lady Sellingworth’s unconquerable diffidence was persecuting her.
She spoke almost with timidity to Craven on the doorstep.
“Oh, no.
I am delighted.”

His young voice was carefully frigid.
“More motors!” she said.
“The whole of London will be here by tea time.”

“Great fun, isn’t it?
Such a squash of interesting people.”

“And I am taking you away from them!”

“That’s all right!”

“Oh, what an Eton’s boy’s voice!” she thought.
But she loved it.
That was the truth.
His youngness was so apparent in his coldness that he was more dangerous than ever to her who had an unconquerable passion for youth.
“Let us go through this door in the wall.
It must lead to the gardens.”

“Certainly!”

He pushed it open.
They passed through and were away from the motors, standing on a broad terrace which turned at right angles and skirted the back of the house.
“Don’t let us go round the corner before all the drawing-room windows.”

“No?” he said.
“Unless you prefer--”

“I will go wherever you like.”

“I thought--what about this path?”

“Shall we do down it?”

“I think it looks rather tempting.”

They walked slowly on, descending a slight incline, and came to a second long terrace on a lower level.
There was a good deal of brick-work in Mrs. Ackroyde’s garden, but there were some fine trees, and in summer the roses were wonderful.
Now there were not many flowers, but at least there were calm and silence, and the breath of the winter woods came to Lady Sellingworth and Craven.
Craven said nothing, and walked stiffly beside his companion looking straight ahead.
He seemed entirely unlike the man who had talked so enthusiastically in her drawing-room after the dinner in the _Bella Napoli_, and again on that second evening when they had dined together without the company of Beryl Van Tuyn.
But Dindie Ackroyde had said he had come down that day because he had been told he would meet her.
And Dindie was scarcely ever wrong about people.
But this time surely she had made a mistake.
“Oh, there’s the hard court!” Lady Sellingworth said.
“Yes.”

“It looks a beauty.”

“Do you play?”

“I used to.
But I have given it up.”

After a silence she added:

“You know I have given up everything.
There comes a time--”

She hesitated.
“Perhaps you will not believe it, but I feel very strange here with all these people.”

“But you know them all, don’t you?”

“Nearly all.
But they mean nothing to me now.”

They were walking slowly up and down the long terrace.
“One passes away from things,” she said, “as one goes on.
It is rather a horrible feeling.”

Suddenly, moved by an impulse that was almost girlish, she stopped on the path and said:

“What is the matter with you to-day?
Why are you angry with me?”

Craven flushed.
“Angry!
But I am not angry!”

“Yes, you are.
Tell me why.”

“How could I--I’m really not angry.
As if I could be angry with you!”

“Then why are you so different?”

“In what way am I different?”

She did not answer, but said:

“Did you hear what the baron and I were talking about at lunch?”

“Just a few words.”

“I hope you didn’t think I wished to join in gossip about Beryl Van Tuyn?”

“Of course not.”

“I hate all such talk.
If that offended you--”

She was losing her dignity and knew it, but a great longing to overcome his rigidity drove her on.
“If you think--”

“It wasn’t that!” he said.
“I have no reason to mind what anyone says about Miss Van Tuyn.”

“But she’s your friend!”

“Is she?
I think a friend is a very rare thing.
You have taught me that.”

“I?
How?”

“You went abroad without letting me know.”

“Is that it?” she said.
And there was a strange note, like a note of joy, in her voice.
“I think you might have told me.
And you put me off.
I was to have seen you--”

“Yes, I know.”

She was silent.
She could not explain.
That was impossible.
Yet she longed to tell him how much she had wished to see him, how much it had cost her to go without a word.
But suddenly she remembered Camber.
He was angry with her, but he had very soon consoled himself for her departure.
“I went away quite unexpectedly,” she said.
“I had to go like that.”

“I--I hope you weren’t ill?”

He recalled Braybrooke’s remarks about doctors.
Perhaps she had really been ill. Perhaps something had happened abroad, and he had done her a wrong.
“No, I haven’t been ill.
It wasn’t that,” she said.
The thought of Camber persisted, and now persecuted her.
“I am quite sure you didn’t miss me,” she said, with a colder voice.
“But I did!” he said.
“For how long?”

The mocking look he knew so well had come into her eyes.
How much did she know?
“Have you seen Miss Van Tuyn since you came back?” he asked.
“Oh, yes.
She paid me a visit soon after I arrived.”

Craven looked down.
He realized that something had been said, that Miss Van Tuyn had perhaps talked injudiciously.
But even if she had, why should Lady Sellingworth mind?
His relation with her was so utterly different from his relation with the lovely American.
It never occurred to him that this wonderful elderly woman, for whom he had such a peculiar feeling, could care for him at all as a girl might, could think of him as a woman thinks of a man with whom she might have an affair of the heart.
She fascinated him.
Yes!
But she did not fascinate that part of him which instinctively responded to Beryl Van Tuyn.
And that he fascinated her in any physical way simply did not enter his mind.
Nevertheless, at that moment he felt uncomfortable and, absurdly enough, almost guilty.
“Have you seen Beryl since her father’s death?” said Lady Sellingworth.
“No,” he said.
“At least--yes, I suppose I have.”

“You suppose?”

Her eyes had not lost their mocking expression.
“I happened to see her in Glebe Place with that fellow they are all chattering about, but I didn’t speak to her.
I believe her father was dead then.
But I didn’t know it at the time.”

“Oh!
Is he so very handsome, as they say?”

She could not help saying this, and watching him as she said it.
“I should say he was a good-looking chap,” answered Craven frigidly.
“But he looks like a wrong ‘un.”

“It is difficult to tell what people are at a glance.”

“Some people--yes.
But I think with others one look is enough.”

“Yes, that’s true,” she said, thinking of him.
“Shall we go a little farther towards the woods?”

“Yes; let us.”

She knew he was suffering obscurely that day, perhaps in his pride, perhaps in something else.
She hoped it was in his pride.
Anyhow, she felt pity for him in her new-found happiness.
For she was happier now in comparison with what she had been.
And with that happiness came a great longing to comfort him, to draw him out of his cold reserve, to turn him into the eager and almost confidential boy he had been with her.
As they passed the red tennis court and walked towards the end of the garden which skirted the woods she said:

“I want you to understand something.
I know it must have seemed unfriendly in me to put you off, and then to leave England without letting you know.
But I had a reason which I can’t explain.”

“Yes?”

“I shall never be able to explain it.
But if I could you would realize at once that my friendship for you was unaltered.”

“Well, but you didn’t let me know you were back.
You did not ask me to come to see you.”

“I did not think you would care to come.”

“But--why?”

“I--perhaps you--I don’t find it easy now to think that anyone can care much to be bothered with me.”

“Oh--Lady Sellingworth!”

“That really is the truth.
Believe it or not, as you like.
You see, I am out of things now.”

“You need never be out of things unless you choose.”

“Oh, the world goes on and leaves one behind.
Don’t you remember my telling you and Beryl once that I was an Edwardian?”

“If that means un-modern I think I prefer it to modernity.
I think perhaps I have an old-fashioned soul.”

He was smiling now.
The hard look had gone from his eyes; the ice in his manner had melted.
She felt that she was forgiven.
And she tried to put the thought of Camber out of her mind.
Beryl was unscrupulous.
Perhaps she had exaggerated.
And, in any case, surely she had treated, was treating, him badly.
She felt that he and she were friends again, that he was glad to be with her once more.
There was really a link of sympathy between them.
And he had been angry because she had gone abroad without telling him.
She thought of his anger and loved it.
That day, after tea, while the music was still going on in Dindie Ackroyde’s drawing-room, they drove back to London together, leaving their reputations quite comfortably behind them in the hand of the “old guard.”

CHAPTER II

Beryl Van Tuyn found that it was not necessary for her to cross the ocean on account of her father’s sudden death.
He had left all his affairs in excellent order, and the chief part of his fortune was bequeathed to her.
She had always had plenty of money.
Now she was rich.
She went into mourning, answered suitably the many letters of condolence that poured in upon her, and then considered what she had better do.
Miss Cronin pleaded persistently for an immediate return to Paris.
What was the good of staying on in London now?
The winter was dreary in London.
The flat in Paris was far more charming and elegant than any hotel.
Beryl had all her lovely things about her there.
Her chief friends were in Paris.
She could see them quietly at home.
And it was quite impossible for her to go about London now that she was plunged in mourning.
What would they do there?
She, Miss Cronin, could go on as usual, of course.
She never did anything special.
But Beryl would surely be bored to death living the life of a hermit in Claridge’s.
Miss Van Tuyn listened to all that old Fanny had to say, and made no attempt to refute her arguments or reply to her exhortations.
She merely remarked that she would think the matter over.
“But what is there to think over, darling?” said Miss Cronin, lifting her painted eyebrows.
“There is nothing to keep us here.
You never go to the Wallace Collection now.”

“Do please allow me to be the judge of what I want to do with my life, Fanny,” said Miss Van Tuyn, curtly.
“When I wish to pack up I’ll tell you.”

And old Fanny collapsed like a pricked bladder.
She could not understand Beryl any longer.
The girl seemed to be quite beyond her reach.
She thought of Alick Craven and of the man in the blue overcoat with the strange name.
Nicolas Arabian.
She had seen neither of them again.
Beryl never mentioned them.
But Fanny was sure that one, or both, of them held her in London.
Something must be in the wind, something dangerous to any companion.
She felt on the threshold of an alarming, perhaps disastrous, change.
As she went nowhere she knew nothing of Beryl’s visit to Rose Tree Gardens and of the gossip it had set going in certain circles in London.
But she had never been able to forget the impression she had had when Beryl had introduced her to the man with the melting brown eyes.
Beryl was surely in love.
Yet she did not look happy.
Certainly her father’s death might have upset her.
But Miss Cronin did not think that was sufficient to account for the change in the girl.
She had something on her mind besides that.
Miss Cronin was certain of it.
Beryl’s cool self-assurance was gone.
She was restless.
She brooded.
She seemed quite unable to settle to anything or to come to any decision.
Old Fanny began to be seriously alarmed.
Mrs. Clem Hodson had gone back to Philadelphia.
She had no one to consult, no one to apply to.
She felt quite helpless.
Even Bourget could give her no solace.
She had a weak imagination, but it now began to trouble her.
As she lay upon her sofa, she, always feebly, imagined many things.
But oftenest she saw a vague vision of Mr. Craven and Mr. Arabian fighting a duel because of Beryl.
They were in a forest clearing near Paris in early morning.
It was a duel with revolvers, as Bourget might have described it.
She saw their buttoned-up coats, their stretched-out arms.
Which did she wish to be the victor?
And which would Beryl wish to return unwounded to Paris?
Surely Mr. Arabian.
He was so kind, so enticingly gentle; he had such beautiful eyes.
And yet--and at this point old Fanny’s imagination ceased to function, and something else displayed a certain amount of energy, her knowledge of the world.
What would Mr. Arabian be like as a husband?
He was charming, seductive even, caressingly sympathetic--yes, caressingly!
But--as a husband?
And old Fanny felt mysteriously that something in her recoiled from the idea of Arabian as the husband of Beryl, whereas she could think of Mr. Craven in that situation quite calmly.
It was all very odd, and it made her very uncomfortable.
It even agitated her, and she felt her solitude keenly.
There had never been a real link between Beryl and her, and she knew it.
But now she felt herself strangely alone in the midst of perhaps threatening dangers.
If only Beryl would become frank, would speak out, would consult her, ask her advice!
But the girl was enclosed in a reserve that was flawless.
There was not a single breach in the wall.
And the dark winter had descended on London.
One evening Miss Van Tuyn felt almost desperate.
Enclosed in her reserve she longed for a confidante; she longed to talk things over, to take counsel with someone.
She had even a desire to ask for advice.
But she knew no one in London to whom she could unbosom herself.
Fanny did not count.
Old Fanny was a fool and quite incapable of being useful mentally to anyone with good brains.
And to what other woman could she speak, she, Beryl Van Tuyn, the notoriously clever, notoriously independent, young beauty, who had always hitherto held the reins of her own destiny?
If only she could speak to a man!
But there the sex question intruded itself.
No man would be impartial unless he were tremendously old.
And she had no tremendously old man friend, having always preferred those who were still in possession of all their faculties.
No young man could be impartial, least of all Alick Craven, and yet she wished intensely that she had not lost her head that day in Glebe Place, that she had carried out her original intention and had introduced Craven to Arabian.
She knew what people were saying of her in London.
Although she was in deep mourning and could not go about, several women had been to see her.
They had come to condole with her, and had managed to let her understand what people were murmuring.
Lady Archie had been with her.
Mrs. Birchington had looked in.
And two days after Lady Sellingworth’s visit to Coombe Dindie Ackroyde had called.
From her Miss Van Tuyn had heard of Craven’s walk in the garden with Adela Sellingworth and early departure to London in Adela’s motor.
In addition to this piece of casually imparted news, Mrs. Ackroyde had frankly told Miss Van Tuyn that she was being gossiped about in a disagreeable way and that, in spite of her established reputation for unconventionality, she ought to be more careful.
And Miss Van Tuyn--astonishingly--had not resented this plain speaking.
Mrs. Ackroyde, of course, had tried to find out something about Nicolas Arabian, but Miss Van Tuyn had evaded the not really asked questions, and had treated the whole matter with an almost airy casualness which had belied all that was in her mind.
But these visits, and especially Dindie Ackroyde’s, had deepened the nervous pre-occupation which was beginning seriously to alarm old Fanny.
If she took old Fanny’s advice and left London?
If she returned to Paris?
She believed, indeed she felt certain, that to do that would not be to separate from Arabian.
He would follow her there.
If she took the wings of the morning and flew to the uttermost parts of the earth there surely she would find him.
She began to think of him as a hound on the trail of her.
And yet she did not want him to lose the trail.
She combined fear with desire in a way that was inexplicable to herself, that sometimes seemed to her like a sort of complex madness.
But her reason for remaining in London was not to be found in Arabian’s presence there.
And she knew that.
If she went to Paris she would be separated from Alick Craven.
She did not want to be separated from him.
And now Dindie Ackroyde’s news intensified her reluctance to yield to old Fanny’s persuasions and to return to her bronzes.
Her clever visit to Adela Sellingworth had evidently not achieved its object.
In spite of her so deliberate confession to Adela the latter had once more taken possession of Craven.
Miss Van Tuyn felt angry and disgusted, even indignant, but she also felt saddened and almost alarmed.
Knowing men very well, being indeed an expert in male psychology, she realized that perhaps, probably even, her own action had driven Craven back to his friendship with Adela.
But that fact did not make things more pleasant for her.
She knew that she had seriously offended Craven.
She remembered the look in his face was he passed quickly by her and Arabian in Glebe Place.
He had not been to see her since, and had not written to condole with her.
She knew that she had outraged his pride, and perhaps something else.
Yet she could not make up her mind to leave England and drop out of his life.
To do that would be like a confession of defeat.
But it was not only her vanity which prompted her to stay on.
She had a curious and strong liking for Craven which was very sincere.
It was absolutely unlike the painful attraction which pushed her towards Arabian.
There was trust in it, a longing for escape from something dangerous, something baleful, into peace and security.
There was even a moral impulse in it such as she had never felt till now.
What was she to do?
She suffered in uncertainty.
Her nerves were all on edge.
She felt irritable, angry, like someone being punished and resenting the punishment.
And she felt horribly dull.
Her mourning prohibited her from seeking distractions.
People were gossiping about her unpleasantly already.
She remembered Dindie Ackroyde’s warning, and knew she had better heed it.
She felt heartless because she was unable to be really distressed about the death of her father.
Old Fanny bored her when she did not actively worry her.
She was terribly sorry for herself.
In the evening, while she was sitting alone in her room listlessly reading a book on modern painting by an author with whose views she did not agree, and looking forward to a probably sleepless night, there was a knock on the door, and a rose cheeked page boy, all alertness and buttons, tripped in with a note on a salver.
“Any answer?” she said.
“No, mum.”

She took the note, and at once recognized Dick Garstin’s enormous handwriting.
Quickly she opened it and read.
GLEBE.
Wed.

Dear B.--Does your mourning prevent you from looking at a damned good picture?
If not, come round to the studio to-morrow any time after lunch and have a squint at a king in the underworld.
D. G.

At once her feeling of acute boredom left her, was replaced by a keen sense of excitement.
She realized immediately that at last Garstin had finished his picture, that at last he had satisfied himself.
She had not seen Garstin since the day when she had heard of her father’s death.
Nor had she seen Arabian.
Characteristically, Garstin had not taken the trouble to send her a letter of condolence.
He never bothered to do anything conventional.
If he had written he would probably had congratulated her on coming into a fortune.
Arabian’s sympathy had already been expressed.
Naturally, therefore, he had not written to her.
But he had made no sign in all these days, had not left a card, had not attempted to see her.
Day after day she had wondered whether he would do something, give some evidence of life, of intention.
Nothing!
He had just let her alone.
But in his inaction she had felt him intensely, far more than she felt other men in their actions.
He had, as it were, surrounded her with his silence, had weighed upon her by his absence.
She feared and was fascinated by his apparent indifference, as formerly, when with him, she had feared and been fascinated by his reticence of speech and of conduct.
Only once had he taken the initiative with her, when he had ordered the taxi-cab driver to go to Rose Tree Gardens.
And even then, when he had had her there alone in his flat, nothing had happened.
And he had let her go without any attempt to detain her.
In his passivity there was something hypnotic which acted upon her.
She felt it charged with power, with intention, even almost with brutality.
There was a great cry for her in his silence.
She did not answer Garstin’s note.
That was not necessary.
She knew she would see him on the morrow.
Directly after lunch on the following day she walked to Glebe Place, wondering whether Arabian would be there.
As usual, Garstin answered the door and covered her with a comprehensive glance as she stood on the doorstep.
“Black suits you,” he said.
“You ought never to go out of mourning.”

“Thank you for your kind sympathy, Dick,” she answered.
“One can always depend on you for delicacy of feeling and expression in time of trouble.”

He smiled as he shut the door.
“You tartar!” he said.
“Be careful you don’t develop into a shrew as you get on in life.”

She noticed at once that he was looking unusually happy.
There was even something almost of softness in his face, something almost of kindness, certainly of cordiality, in his eyes.
“Evidently coming into money hasn’t had a softening influence upon you,”  he added.
To her surprise he took her into the ground floor studio and sat down on the big divan there.
“Aren’t we going upstairs?” she said.
“In a minute.
Don’t be in such a blasted hurry, my girl!”

“Well, but--”

She followed his example and sat down.
“Is anyone up there?”

“Not a soul.
Who should there be?”

“Well, I don’t know.
I thought perhaps--”

“Old Nick was there?
Well, he isn’t!”

“How absurd you are!” she said, almost with confusion, and looking away from him.
“I only wondered whether you had a model with you.”

“I know, I know!”

After a rather long pause she said:

“What are we waiting here for?”

“Oh--just to rest!”

“But I’m not tired.”

“I didn’t suppose you were.”

Again there was a pause, in which Miss Van Tuyn felt a tingling of impatient irritation.
“I suppose you are doing this merely to whet my appetite,” she said presently, unable to bear the unnatural silence.
“Of course I know you have finished the picture at last.
You have asked me to come here to see it.
Then why on earth not let me see it?
All this waiting can’t come from timidity.
I know you don’t care for opinion so long as your own is satisfied.”

He sent her an odd look that was almost boyish in its half mischievous, half wistful roguishness.
“My girl, you speak about a painter with great assurance, and, let me add, with great ignorance.
I’ll tell you the plain truth for once.
I’ve been keeping you down here out of sheer diffidence.
Now then!”

“Dick!”

His lean blue cheeks slightly reddened as he looked at her.
She knew he had spoken the truth, and was touched.
She got up quickly, went to him, and put one hand on his shoulder.
“You are afraid of me!
But no--I can’t believe it!”

“Ha!”

He got up.
“It is finished?”

“Yes, at last it’s done.”

“Has--have you shown--I suppose he has seen it?”

Garstin shook his head, and a dark lock of hair fell over his forehead.
“He doesn’t even know it is finished, the ruffian!
He’s given me a damned lot of trouble.
I’ll keep him on the gridiron a bit longer.
Grilling will do him good.”

“Then I am the first?”

“Yes, you are the first.”

“Thank you, Dick,” she said soberly.
“May I go up now?”

“Yes, come on!”

He went before her and mounted the stairs, taking long strides.
She followed him eagerly, yet with a feeling of apprehension.
What would it be--this portrait finished at last?
Dick Garstin was cruelly fond of revelation.
She thought of his judge who ought to be judged, of other pictures of his.
Had he caught and revealed the secret of Arabian?
“Now then!”

But Garstin still hesitated.
“Sit here!”

She obeyed, and sat down on a sofa with the window behind her.
“I’ll have a smoke.”

“Oh!”

He went to the Spanish cabinet, and stood with his back to her, apparently searching.
He lifted things, put them back.
She glowed with almost furious impatience.
At last he found the cigars.
Probably he had never had to seek for them.
He lit up.
“Now then--a drink!”

“Oh, Dick!” she breathed.
But she made no other protest.
“Will you?”

“No!” she said sharply.
Then she gazed at him and said:

“Yes.”

He poured out whisky for her and himself, added some soda water, and lifted his glass.
“To Arabian!” he said.
“Why should we drink to Mr. Arabian?”

“He has done me a good turn.”

There was a look in his eyes now which she did not like, a very intelligent and cruel look.
She knew it well.
It expressed almost blatantly the man’s ruthlessness.
She did not inquire what the good turn was, but raised her glass slowly and drank.
“Your hand trembles, my girl!” said Garstin.
“Nonsense!
It does not!
Now please show me the portrait.
I will not wait any longer.”

“Here you are then!”

He went over to a distant easel, pulled it forward with its back to them, then, when it was near to the sofa, turned it round.
“There he is!”

Miss Van Tuyn sat very still and gazed.
After turning the easel Dick Garstin had gone to stand behind the sofa and her.
She heard him making a little “t’p!
t’p!” with his lips, getting rid, perhaps, of an adherent scrap of tobacco leaf.
After what seemed to both of them a very long time she spoke.
“I don’t believe it!” she said.
“I don’t believe it!”

“Like the man when he saw a giraffe for the first time?
But he was wrong, my girl, for nature does turn out giraffes.”

“No, Dick!
It’s too bad!”

Her cheeks were flaming with red.
“Too bad!
Don’t you think it’s well painted?”

“Well painted?
Of course it’s well--it’s magnificently painted!”

He chuckled contentedly behind her.
“Then what’s the matter?
What’s the trouble?”

“You know what’s the matter.
You know quite well.”

She turned sharply round on the sofa and faced him with angry eyes.
“There was a great actor once whose portrait was painted by a great artist, an artist as great as you are.
It was exhibited and then handed over to the actor.
From that moment it disappeared.
No one ever saw it.
The actor never mentioned it.
And yet it was a masterpiece.
When the actor died a search was made for the portrait, and it was found hidden in an attic of his house.
It had been slashed almost to pieces with a knife.
Till to-day I could not understand such a deed as that--the killing of a masterpiece.
But now I can understand it.”

“He shall have it and put a knife through it if he likes.
But”--he snapped out the word with sudden fierce emphasis--“_but_ I’ll exhibit it first.”

“He’ll never let you!” Miss Van Tuyn almost cried out.
“Won’t he?
That was the bargain!”

“He didn’t promise.
I remember quite well all that was said.
He didn’t promise.”

“It was understood.
I told him I should exhibit the picture and that afterwards I’d hand it over to him.”

“When is he going to see it?”

“Why do you ask?
Do you want to be here when he does?”

She did not answer.
She was staring at the portrait, and now the hot colour had faded from her face.
“If you do you can be here.
I don’t mind.”

“I don’t believe it,” she repeated slowly.
All that she had sometimes fancied, almost dimly, and feared about Arabian was expressed in Garstin’s portrait of him.
The man was magnificent on the canvas, but he was horrible.
Evil seemed to be subtly expressed all over him.
That was what she felt.
It looked out of his large brown eyes.
But that was not all.
Somehow, in some curious and terrible way, Garstin had saturated his mouth, his cheeks, his forehead, even his bare neck and shoulders with the hideous thing.
Danger was everywhere, the warning that the living man surely did not give, or only gave now and then for a fleeting instant.
In Garstin’s picture Arabian was unmistakably a being of the underworld, a being of the darkness, of secret places and hidden deeds, a being of unspeakable craft, of hideous knowledge, of ferocious cynicism.
And yet he was marvellously handsome and full of force, even of power.
It could not be said that great intellect was stamped on his face, but a fiercely vital mentality was there, a mentality that could frighten and subdue, that could command and be sure of obedience.
In the eyes of a tiger there is a terrific mentality.
Miss Van Tuyn thought of that as she gazed at the portrait.
In her silence now she was trying to get a strong hold on herself.
The first shock of astonishment, and almost of horror, had passed.
She was more sharply conscious now of Garstin in connexion with herself.
At last she spoke again.
“Of course you realize, Dick, that such a portrait as that is an outrage.
It’s a master work, I believe, but it is an outrage.
You cannot exhibit it.”

“But I shall.
This man, Arabian, isn’t known.”

“How can we tell that?”

“Do you know a living creature he knows or who knows him?”

“Everyone has acquaintances.
Everyone almost has friends.
He must certainly have both.”

“God knows who or where they are.”

“You cannot exhibit it,” she repeated obstinately.
“I hate art in kid gloves.
But this is too merciless.
It is more.
It is a libel.”

“That’s just where you’re wrong.”

“No.”

“Beryl, my girl, you are lying.
That’s no use with me.”

“I am not lying!” she said with hot anger.
Suddenly she felt that tears had come into her eyes.
“How hateful you are!” she exclaimed.
She felt frightened under the eyes of the portrait.
Garstin’s revelation had struck upon her like a blow.
She felt dazed by it.
Yet she longed to hit back.
She wanted to defend Arabian, perhaps because she felt that she needed defence.
Garstin came abruptly round the sofa and sat down by her side.
“What’s up?” he said in a kinder voice.
“Why do you paint like that?
It’s abominable!”

“Tell me the honest truth--God’s own truth, as they call it, I don’t know why--is that picture fine, is it my best work, or isn’t it?”

“I’ve told you already.
It’s a technical masterpiece and a moral outrage.
You have taken a man for a model and painted a beast.”

“Beryl,” he said almost solemnly, “believe it or not, as you can, that _is_ Arabian!”

He pointed at the picture as he spoke.
His keen eyes, half shut, were fixed upon it.
“That _is_ the real man, and what you see is only the appearance he chooses to give of himself.”

“How do you know?
How can you know that?”

“Haven’t I the power to show men and women as in essence they are?”

His eyes travelled round the big studio slowly, travelled from canvas to canvas, from the battered old siren of the streets to the girl who was dreaming of sins not yet committed; from Cora waiting for her prey to the judge who had condemned his.
“Haven’t I?
And don’t you know it?”

“You are wrong this time,” she said with mutinous determination, but still with the tears in her eyes.
“You couldn’t sum up Arabian.
You tried and tried again.
And now at last you have forced yourself to paint him.
You have got angry.
That’s it.
You have got furious with yourself and with him, because of your own impotence, and you have painted him in a passion.”

“Oh, no!”

He shook his head.
“I never felt colder, more completely master of myself and my passions, than when I painted that portrait.”

“But you asked me to find out his secret.
You pushed me into his company that I might find it out and help you.”

“I did!”

“Well!” she said, almost triumphantly, “I have never found it out.”

“Oh, yes, you have.”

“No.
He is the most reserved, uncommunicative man I have ever known.”

“Subconsciously you have found it out, and you have conveyed it to me.
And that is the result.
I suspected what the man was the first time I laid eyes on him.
When I got him here I seemed to get off the track of him.
For he’s very deceptive--somehow.
Yes, he’s damned deceptive.
But then you put me wise.
Your growing terror of him put me wise.”

He looked hard into her eyes.
“Beryl, my girl, your sex has intuitions.
One of them, one of yours, I have painted.
And there it is!”

The bell sounded below.
“Ha!” said Garstin, turning his head sharply.
He listened for an instant.
Then he said:

“I’ll bet you anything you like that’s the king himself.”

“The king?”

“In the underworld.
Did you walk here?”

“Yes.”

“He must have seen you.
He’s followed you.
What a lark!”

His eyes shone with a sort of malicious glee.
“There goes the bell again!
Beryl, I’ll have him up.
We’ll show him himself.”

He put a finger to his lips and went down, leaving her alone with the portrait.
CHAPTER III

“Come up!
Come up, my boy!
I’ve something to show you!”

She heard steps mounting the stairs, and got up from the sofa.
She looked once more at the portrait, then turned round to meet the two men, standing so that she was directly in front of it.
Just then she had a wish to conceal it from Arabian, to delay, if only for a moment, his knowledge of what had been done.
Arabian came into the studio and saw her in her mourning facing him.
At once he came up to her with Dick Garstin behind him.
He looked grave, sympathetic, almost reverential.
His brown eyes held a tender expression of kindness.
“Miss Van Tuyn!
I did not know you were here.”

She saw Garstin smiling ironically.
Arabian took her hand and pressed it.
“I am glad to see you again.”

His look, his pressure, were full of ardent sympathy.
“I have been thinking often of you and your great sorrow.”

“Thank you!” she said, almost stammering.
“And what is it I am to see?” said Arabian, turning to Garstin.
“Stand away, Beryl!” said Garstin roughly.
She moved.
What else could she do?
Arabian saw the portrait and said:

“Oh, my picture at last!”

Then he took a step forward, and there was a silence in the studio.
Miss Van Tuyn looked at the floor at first.
Then, as the silence continued, she raised her eyes to Arabian’s.
She did not know what she expected to see, but she was surprised at what she did see.
Standing quite still immediately in front of the picture, with his large eyes fixed upon it, Arabian was looking very calm.
There was, indeed, scarcely any expression in his face.
He had thrust both hands into the pockets of his overcoat.
Miss Van Tuyn wondered whether those hands would betray any feeling if she could see them.
In the calmness of his face she thought there was something stony, but she was not quite sure.
She was, perhaps, too painfully moved, too violently excited just then to be a completely accurate observer.
And she was aware of that.
She wished Arabian would speak.
When was he going to speak?
“Well?” said Garstin at last, perhaps catching her feeling.
“What do you think of the thing?
Are you satisfied with it?
I’ve been a long time over it, but there it is at last.”

He laughed slightly, uneasily, she thought.
“What’s the verdict?”

“One moment--please!” said Arabian in an unusually soft voice.
Miss Van Tuyn was again struck, as she had been struck, when she first met Arabian in the studio, by the man’s enormous self-possession.
She felt sure that he must be feeling furiously angry, yet he did not show a trace of anger, of surprise, of any emotion.
Only the marked softness of his voice was unusual.
He seemed to be examining the picture with quiet interest and care.
“Well?
Well?” said Garstin at last, with a sort of acute impatience which betrayed to her that he was really uneasy.
“Let’s hear what you think, though we know you don’t set up for being a judge of painting.”

“I think it is very like,” said Arabian.
“Oh, Lord--like!” exclaimed Garstin, on an angry gust of breath.
“I’m not a damned photographer!”

“Should not a portrait be like?” said Arabian, still in the very soft voice.
“Am I wrong, then?”

“Of course not!” said Miss Van Tuyn, frowning at Garstin.
At that moment absolutely, and without any reserve, she hated him.
“Then you’re satisfied?” jerked out Garstin.
“Indeed--yes, Dick Garstin.
This is a valuable possession for me.”

“Possession?” said Garstin, as if startled.
“Oh, yes, to be sure!
You’re to have it--presently!”

“Quite so.
I am to have it.
It is indeed very fine.
Do not you think so, Miss Van Tuyn?”

For the first time since he had seen the portrait he looked away from it, and his eyes rested on her.
She felt that she trembled under those eyes, and hoped that he did not see it.
“You do not say!
Surely this is a very fine picture?”

He seemed to be asking her to tell him whether or not the portrait ought to be admired.
There was just then an odd simplicity, or pretence of simplicity, in his manner which was almost boyish.
And his eyes seemed to be appealing to her.
“It is a magnificent piece of painting,” she forced herself to say.
But she said it coldly, reluctantly.
“Then I am not wrong.”

He looked pleased.
“My eye is not very educated.
I fear to express my opinion before people such as you”--he looked towards Garstin, and added--“and you, Dick Garstin.”

And then he turned away from the picture with the manner of a man who had done with it.
She was amazed at his coolness, his perfect ease of manner.
“May I ask for a cigar, Dick Garstin?” he said.
“Pardon!” said Garstin gruffly.
Miss Van Tuyn noticed that he seemed very ill at ease.
His rough self-possession had deserted him.
He looked almost shy and awkward.
Before going to the cabinet he went to the easel and noisily wheeled it away.
Then he fetched the cigar and poured out a drink for Arabian.
“Light up, old chap!
Have a drink!”

There was surely reluctant admiration in his voice.
Arabian accepted the drink, lit the cigar, sat down, and began to talk about his flat.
At that moment he dominated them both.
Miss Van Tuyn felt it.
He talked much more than she had ever before heard him talk in the studio, and expressed himself better, with more fluency than usual.
Garstin said very little.
There was a fixed flush on his cheek-bones and an angry light in his eyes.
He sat watching Arabian with a hostile, and yet half-admiring, scrutiny, smoking rapidly, nervously, and twisting his large hands about.
Presently Miss Van Tuyn got up to go.
“Going already?” said Garstin.
“Yes, I must.”

“Oh, well--”

“I will accompany you,” said Arabian.
She looked away from him and said nothing.
Garstin went with them downstairs and opened the door.
“Bye-bye!” he said in a loud voice.
“See you again soon.
Good luck to you!”

Arabian held out his hand.
“Good-bye.”

Miss Van Tuyn nodded without speaking.
Garstin shut the door noisily.
They walked down Glebe Place in silence.
When they got to the corner Arabian said:

“Are you in a hurry to-day?”

“No, not specially.”

“Shall we take a little walk?
It is not very late.”

“A walk?
Where to?”

“Shall we go along by the river?”

She hesitated.
She was torn by conflicting feelings.
She was very angry with Garstin.
She still continued to say, though now to herself, “I don’t believe it!
I don’t believe it!” And yet she knew that Garstin’s portrait had greatly increased her strange fear of Arabian.
“This way will take us to the river.”

She knew he was looking straight at her though she did not look at him.
At that moment a remembrance of Craven and Camber flashed through her mind.
“Yes, I know,” she said, “But--”

“I am fond of the river,” he said.
“Yes--but in winter!”

“Let us go.
Or will you come back to--”

“No, I will go.
I like it too.
London looks its best from the waterside.”

And she walked on again with him.
He said nothing more, and she did not speak till they had crossed the broad road and were on the path by the dark river, which flowed at full tide under a heavy blackish grey sky.
Then Arabian spoke again, and the peculiar softness she had noticed that afternoon had gone out of his voice.
“I am fortunate, am I not,” he said, “to be the possessor of that very fine picture by Dick Garstin?
Many people would be glad to buy it, I suppose.”

“Oh, yes!”

“Do you consider it one of Dick Garstin’s best paintings?
I know you are a good judge.
I wish to hear what you really think.”

“He has never painted anything more finely that I have seen.”

“Ah!
That is indeed lucky for me.”

“Yes.”

“I shall send and fetch it away.”

“Oh, but--”

She stopped speaking.
She was startled by his tone and also by what he had said.
She glanced at him, then looked away and across the dark river.
Dead leaves brushed against her feet with a dry, brittle noise.
“What is that you say, please?”

“I only--I thought it was arranged that the picture was to be exhibited,” she said, falteringly.
“Oh, no.
I shall not permit Dick Garstin to exhibit that picture.”

Now intense curiosity was born in her and seemed for the moment to submerge her uneasiness and fear.
“But wasn’t it understood?” she said.
“Please, what do you say was understood?”

“Didn’t Mr. Garstin say he meant to exhibit the picture and afterwards give it to you?”

“But I say that I shall not permit Dick Garstin to exhibit my picture.”

“Why won’t you allow it?” she asked.
In her curiosity she was at last regaining some of her usual self-possession.
She scented a struggle between these two men, both of them of tough fibre, both of them, she believed, far from scrupulous, both of them likely to be enormously energetic and determined when roused.
“Do you not know?” he asked.
“No!
How can I know such a thing?
How can I know what is in your mind unless you tell me?”

“Oh, but I will tell you then!
I will not let Dick Garstin exhibit that picture because it is a lie about me.”

“A lie?
How can that be?”

“A man can speak a lie.
Is it not so?”

“Of course.”

“Cannot a man write a lie?”

“Yes.”

“And a man can paint a lie.
Dick Garstin has painted a lie about me.”

“But then--if it is so--”

“Certainly it is so.”

There was now a hard sound in his voice, and, when she looked at him, she saw that his face had changed.
The quiet self-control which had amazed her in the studio was evidently leaving him.
Or he no longer cared to exercise it.
“But, then, do you wish to possess the picture?
Do you wish to possess a lie?”

“Is it not right that I possess it rather than someone else?”

“Yes, perhaps it is.”

“Certainly it is.
I shall take that picture away.”

“But Dick Garstin intends to exhibit it.
I know that.
I know he will not let you have it till it has been shown.”

“What is the law in England that one man should paint a wicked portrait of another man and that this other should be helpless to prevent it from being shown to all the world?
Is that just?”

“No, I don’t think it is.”

He stopped abruptly and stood by the river wall.
It was a cold and dreary afternoon, menacing and dark.
Few people were out in that place.
She stood still beside him.
“Miss Van Tuyn,” he said, looking hard at her with an expression of--apparently--angry sincerity in his eyes.
“This happens.
I sit quietly in the Cafe Royal, a public place.
A strange man comes up.
Never have I seen him before.
He says himself to be a painter.
He asks to paint me--he begs!
I go to his studio, as you know.
I hesitate when I have seen his pictures--all of horrible persons, bad women and a beastly old man.
At last he persuades me to be painted, promising to give me the picture when finished.
He paints and paints, destroys and destroys.
I am patient.
I give up nearly all my time to him.
I sit there day after day for hours.
At last he has painted me.
And when I look I find he has made of me a beast, a monster, worse than all the other horrible persons.
And when I come in he is showing this monster to you, a lady, my friend, one I respect and admire above all, and who, perhaps, has thought of me with kindness, who has been to me in trouble, to my flat, who has told me her sorrow and put trust in me as in none other.
‘Here he is!’ says Dick Garstin.
‘This beast, this monster--it is he!
Look at him.
I introduce you to Nicolas Arabian!’ Am I, in return for such things, to say, ‘All right!
Now take this beast, this monster, and show him to all the world and say, “There is Nicolas Arabian!”’ Do you say I should do this?”

“But I have nothing to do with it.”

“Have you not?”

Her eyes gave way before his and looked down.
“Anyhow,” he said, “I will not do it.
I have a will as well as he.”

“Yes,” she thought.
“You have a will, a tremendous will.”

“To you,” he said, “I show what I would not show to him, that I have feelings and that I am very much hurt to-day.”

“I am sorry.
I told Dick Garstin--”

“Yes?
What?”

“Before you came I told him he ought not to exhibit the picture.”

“Ah!
Thank you!
Thank you!”

He smiled, and the lustrously soft look came into his eyes.
“A woman--she always knows what a man is!” he said, in a low voice.
“It is cold standing here!” she said.
She shivered as she spoke and looked at the water.
“We will go to my flat,” he said, with a sudden air of authority.
“There is a big fire there.”

“Oh, no, I can’t!”

“Why not?
You have been there.”

“Yes, but I ought not to have gone.
I am in mourning.”

“You go to Dick Garstin.
What is the difference?”

“People are so foolish.
They talk.”

“But you go to Dick Garstin!”

He had turned, and now made her walk back by his side along the river bank among the whirling leaves.
“People have begun to talk about us,” she said, almost desperately.
“That women, Mrs. Birchington, who lives opposite to you--she’s a gossip.”

“And do you mind such people?” he asked, with an air of surprised contempt.
“A girl has to be careful what she does.”

As Miss Van Tuyn said this she marvelled at her own conventionality.
That she should be driven to such banality, she who had defied the opinion of both Paris and London!
“Please come once more.
I want you to help me.”

“I!
How can I help you?”

“With Dick Garstin.
I do not want to fight with that man.
I am not what he thinks, but I do not wish to quarrel.
You can help.”

“I don’t see how.”

“By the fire I will tell you.”

“I don’t think I ought to come.”

“What is life if it is always what ought and what ought not?
I do not go by that.
I am not able to think always of that.
And do you?
Oh, no!”

He cast a peculiar glance at her, full of intense shrewdness.
It made her remember the Cafe Royal on the evening of her meeting with the Georgians, her pressure put on Dick Garstin to make Arabian’s acquaintance, her lonely walk in the dark when Arabian had followed her, her first visit to Garstin’s studio, her pretended reason for many subsequent visits there.
This man must surely have understood always the motive which had governed her in what she had done.
His glance told her that.
It pierced through her pretences like a weapon and quivered in the truth of her.
He had always understood her.
Was he at last going to let her understand him?
His eyes seemed to say, “Why pretend any longer with me?
You wanted to know me.
You chose to know me.
It is too late now to play the conventional maiden with me.”

It is too late now.
Her will seemed to be dying out of her.
She walked on beside him mechanically.
She knew that she was going to do what he wished, that she was going to his flat again; and when they reached Rose Tree Gardens without any further protest she got into the lift with him and went up to his floor.
But when he was putting the latchkey into the door the almost solemn words of Dick Garstin came back to her: “Beryl, believe it or not, as you can, that _is_ Arabian!” And she hesitated.
An intense disinclination to go into the flat struggled with the intense desire to yield herself to Arabian’s will.
Arabian was before her eyes, standing there by the opening door, and Garstin’s portrait was before the eyes of her mind in all its magnificent depravation.
Which showed the real man and which the unreal?
Garstin said that he had painted her intuition about Arabian, that she knew Arabian’s secret and had conveyed it to him.
Was that true?
“Please!” said Arabian, holding open the door.
“I cannot come in,” she said, in a dull, low voice.
Beyond the gap of the doorway there lay perhaps the unknown territory called by Garstin the underworld.
She remembered the piercingly shrewd look Arabian had cast at her by the river, a look which had surely included her with him in the region which lies outside all the barriers.
But she did not belong to that region.
Despite her keen curiosities, her resolute defiance of the conventions, her intensely modern determination to live as she chose to live, she would never belong to it.
A horrible longing which she could not understand fought with the fear which Garstin that day had dragged up from the depths of her to the surface.
But she now gave herself to the fear, and she repeated doggedly:

“I cannot come in.”

But just at this moment her intention was changed, and her subsequent action was determined in her by a trifling event, one of those events which teach the world to believe in Fate.
A door, the door of Mrs. Birchington’s flat, clicked behind her.
Someone was coming out.
Instantly, driven by the thought “I mustn’t be seen!” Miss Van Tuyn stepped into Arabian’s flat.
She expected to hear the front door of it close immediately behind her.
But instead she heard Mrs. Birchington’s high soprano voice saying:

“Oh, how d’you do?
Glad to meet you again!”

Quickly she opened the second door on the left and stepped into Arabian’s drawing-room.
Why had he been so slow in shutting the front door?
She must have been seen.
Certainly she had been seen by that horrible Minnie Birchington.
There would be more gossip.
It would be all over London that she was perpetually in this man’s flat.
Why had not he shut the door directly she had stepped into the hall?
Her nervous tension found momentary relief in sudden violent anger against him, and when at length she heard the door shut, and his footstep outside, she turned round to meet him with fierce resolution.
“Why did you do that?”

“Beg pardon!” he said, gently, and looking surprised.
“Why didn’t you shut the front door?
That--Mrs. Birchington must have seen me.
I know she has seen me!”

“I had no time.
I could not refuse to speak to her, could I?
I could not be rude to a lady.”

“But I didn’t wish her to see me!”

She was losing her self-control and knew it.
She was angry with herself as well as with him, but she could not regain her self-possession.
“Why not?” he said, still very gently.
“What is the harm?
Are we doing wrong?
I cannot see it.
I say again, I had no time to shut the door.”

“Did she see me?”

“Really I do not know.”

He shut the sitting-room door.
“I hope,” he said, “that you are not ashamed to be acquainted with me.”

His voice sounded hurt, and now an expression of acute vexation had come into his face.
“Really after what has happened with Dick Garstin to-day I--”

His face now had an expression almost of pain.
“I am really not _canaille_,” he said.
“I am not accustomed to be thought of and treated as if I were _canaille_.”

“It’s all right,” she said.
“But--you see my mourning!
I am in deep mourning, and I ought not--”

She stopped.
She felt the uselessness of her protest, the ungraciousness of her demeanour.
Without another word she went to the sofa by one of the windows and sat down.
He came and sat down beside her.
“I want you to help me about Dick Garstin,” he said.
“How?
What can I do?
I have no influence with him.”

“Oh, yes, you have.
A lady like you has always influence with a man.”

“Not with him.”

“But I say you have.”

“What do you want me to do?”

“I want you to tell him what I have said to you to-day.”

“That you won’t have the picture exhibited?”

“Yes.”

“He’ll only laugh.”

“Beg him for your sake to yield.”

“But what have I to do with it?”

“Very much, I think.
It will be better that he yields--really.”

She raised her eyes to his.
“We do not want a scandal, do we?”

“But--”

“If it should come to a fight between Dick Garstin and me there might be a scandal.”

“But my name wouldn’t--”

Again she was silent.
“I might try.
But it wouldn’t be any use.”

He put out a hand and took one of hers.
“But it all came through you.
Didn’t it?”

“But--but you said you had never seen Dick Garstin till he came up and asked you to sit to him.”

“That was not true.
I saw him with you that night at the Cafe Royal.
That is why I came to the studio.
I knew I should meet you there.
And--you knew.”

Again the terribly shrewd glance came into his eyes.
She saw it and felt no strength for denial.
From the first he must have thoroughly understood her.
“You and I, we are not babies,” he said gently.
“We wanted to know each other, and so it happened.
I have done all this for you.
Now I ask you to tell Dick Garstin for me.”

“I’ll do what I can,” she said.
He pressed her hand softly.
“You are not one of those who are afraid,” he said.
“You do what you choose--even at night.”

She thought of the episode in Shaftesbury Avenue.
“Then you--you--”

“But I do not need to take a shilling from a lady!”

“You didn’t know me that night!” she said defiantly.
“Ah, but when I heard you speak in the studio I knew!”

“And you follow women like that at night!”

She tried to draw away her hand, but he would not let her.
“You drew me after you--not knowing.
It was what they call occult.”

“Then why did you go away?”

“I felt that I had been wrong, that you didn’t wish me to speak to you.”

“Do you mean when I--that you suspected what I was?”

“Something said to me, ‘This is a lady.
She does strange things, she is not like others, but she is a lady.
Go away.’”

“And in the studio--”

“When you spoke I knew.”

She felt degraded.
She could not explain.
And she felt confused.
She did not understand this man.
His curious reticence that night, after his audacity, was inexplicable to her.
What could he think of her?
What must he think?
“I was going out that night to dine in a restaurant in Soho with some friends,” she said, trying to speak very naturally.
“I wanted some fresh air, so I walked.”

“Why not?
I beg you to forgive me for my rudeness.
I feel very ashamed of it now.
I have learnt in all these days to respect you very much.”

His voice sounded so earnest, so sincere, that she felt suddenly a sense of relief.
After all, he had always treated her with respect.
He had never been impertinent, or even really audacious, and yet he had always known that she had wanted to meet him, that she had meant to meet him!
He had never taken advantage of that knowledge.
If he were really what Dick Garstin said he was, surely he would have acted differently.
“Do you really respect me?” she said.
“Yes.
Have I not shown it in all these days?
Have I ever done anything a lady could object to?”

“No.”

Her hand still lay in his, and his touch had aroused in her that strange and intense desire to belong to him which seemed a desire entirely of the body, something with which the mind had little or nothing to do.
“Are you evil?” her eyes were asking him.
And his eyes, looking straight down into hers, seemed steadily and simply to deny it.
“Do you believe the lie of Dick Garstin?” they said to her.
And she no longer knew whether she believed it or not.
He drew a little nearer to her.
“I respect you--yes,” he said.
“But that is not all.
I have another feeling for you.
I have had it ever since I first saw you that night, when I was standing by the door in the Cafe Royal and you looked at me.”

“But--but you--”

“Yes?”

Her lips trembled.
Again jealousy seized her.
“I saw you that night in Conduit Street,” she said.
“You thought I didn’t, but I did.”

He still looked perfectly calm and untroubled.
“You were dining with Dick Garstin.
May I not dine with someone?”

“Then why did you leave the restaurant?”

“I did not want you to see me.”

“Ah!”

“I thought you might not understand.”

“I do understand.
I understand perfectly!”

She drew her hand sharply away from his.
“Are you angry with me?”

“Angry?
No!
What does it matter to me?”

“I am a man.
I live alone.
My life is lonely.
Must I give up everything before I know that some day I shall have the only thing I really wish?
You know men.
You know how we are.
I do not defend.
I only say that I am not better than the other men.
I want to be happy.
If that is not for me, then I want to make the time pass.
I do not pretend.
Men generally pretend very much to beautiful girls.
But you would not believe such nonsense.”

“Then why didn’t you stay in the restaurant?”

“Because I thought to do that would be like an insult for you.
Such girls as that--mud--they must not come into your life even by chance, even for a few minutes.
No man wishes to show himself with mud to a lady he respects.
I tell you just the truth.”

“Have you--have you seen her again?”

“She is in Paris.
She has been in Paris for many days.
But she is nothing.
Why speak of such people?”

“I don’t know.
But I hate--”

She moved restlessly.
Then she got up and went to the fire.
He followed her.
She could not understand her own jealousy.
It humiliated her as she had never been humiliated before.
She felt jealous of this man’s absolute freedom, of his past.
A sort of rage possessed her when she thought of all the experiences he must certainly have had.
She almost hated him for those experiences.
She wished she could lay hands on them, tear them out of him, so that he should not have them any longer in memory’s treasury.
And yet she knew that, without them, he would probably attract her much less.
“Do you care then?” he said.
“Care?”

“Do you care what I do?”

“No, of course not!”

“But--you do care!” he said.
He said it without any triumph of the male, quite simply, almost as a boy might have said it.
“You do care!” he repeated.
And very gently, slowly, he put his arm round her, drew her close to him, bent down and gave her a long kiss.
For a moment she shut her eyes.
She was giving herself up entirely to physical sensation.
Fear, thought, everything except bodily feeling, seemed to cease in her entirely at that moment.
Some fascination which he possessed, an intense fascination for women, entirely mysterious and inexplicable, a thing rooted in the body, absolutely overpowered her at that moment.
It was he who broke the physical spell.
He lifted his lips from hers and she heard the words:

“I want you to marry me.
Will you?”

Instantly she was released.
A flood of thoughts, doubts, wonderings, flowed through her.
She felt terribly startled.
Marriage with this man!
Marriage with Nicolas Arabian!
In all her thoughts of him she had never included the thought of marriage.
Yet she had imagined many situations in which he and she played their parts.
Wild dreams had come to her in sleepless nights, the dreams that visit women who are awake under fascination.
She had lived through romances with him.
She had been with him in strange places, had travelled with him in sandy wastes, seen the night come with him in remote corners of the earth, stood with him in great cities, watched the sea waves slipping away with him on the decks of Atlantic liners.
All this she had done in imagination with him.
But never had she seen herself as his wife.
To be the wife of Arabian!
He let her go directly he felt the surprise in her body.
“Marry you!” she said.
“It could not be anything else,” he said, very simply.
“Could it?”

She flushed as if he had punished her by his respect for her.
“But--but we scarcely know each other!” she stammered.
“You say that now!”

Again she felt rebuked, as if she were lighter than he and as if he were surprised by her lightness.
“But we are only--I mean--”

“Let us not talk of it then now if you dislike.
But I cannot take such a thing any way but seriously, knowing what you are.
I love you; I would follow you anywhere.
Naturally, therefore, I must think of marriage with you, or that I am to have nothing.”

He stopped.
She said nothing; could not say anything.
“With light women one is light.
I do not pretend to be a very good man, better than the others.
Those so very good men, I do not believe in them very much.
But I know that many women are good.
Just at first, let me confess, I was not sure how you were.
At the Cafe Royal that night, seeing you with all those funny people, I made a mistake.
I thought, ‘She is beautiful.
She is audacious.
She likes adventures.
She wishes an adventure with me.’ And I came to Dick Garstin’s thinking of an adventure.
But soon I knew--no!
I heard you talk.
I got to know your cultivation, your very fine mind.
And then you held back from me, waiting till you should know me better.
That pleased me.
It taught me the value of you.
And when at last you did not hold back, were willing to be alone with me, to lunch with me, to walk with me, I understood you had made up your mind: ‘He is all right!’ But, best of all, you at last asked me to your hotel, introduced me to the dear lady you live with.
I understood what was in your mind: ‘_She_, too, must be satisfied.’ Then I knew it was not an adventure.
And when you told me first about your sorrow!
Ah!
That was the great day for me!
I knew you would not have told such a thing, kept from even Dick Garstin, unless you put me in your mind away from the others.
That was a very great day for me!”

She shivered slightly by the fire.
He was telling her things.
She could not in return tell him the truth of herself.
Perhaps he really believed all he had just said.
And yet that shrewd glance he had given her by the river and again in that room!
What had it meant if now he had spoken the truth?
“I knew then that you cared,” he said, quietly and with earnest conviction.
“I knew then that some day I could ask you to marry me.
Anything else--it is impossible between you and me.”

“Yes, of course!
I never--you mustn’t suppose--”

“I do not suppose.
I know you as now you know me.”

He did not touch her again, though, of course, he must know--any man must have known by this time--his physical power to charm, even to overwhelm her.
His power over himself amazed her.
It proved to her the strength in his character.
The man was strong, and in two ways.
She worshipped strength, but his still made her afraid.
“Now let us leave it,” he said, with a change of manner.
“It is getting dark.
It is dreary outside.
I will shut the curtains.
I will sing to you in the firelight.”

He went over to the windows, drew down the blinds, pulled forward the curtains.
She watched him, sitting motionless, wondering at herself and at him.
For the moment he was certainly her master.
He governed her as much by what he did not do as by what he did.
And it had always been so ever since she had known him.
The assurance in his quiet was enormous.
How many things he must have carried through in his life, the life of which she knew absolutely nothing!
But this--would he carry through this?
She tried to tell herself with certainty that he would not.
And yet, as she looked at him, she was not sure.
Will can drown will.
Great power can overcome lesser power, mysteriously sometimes, but certainly.
That play of which she had read an account in the _Westminster Gazette_ was founded on the possibilities, was based upon a solid foundation.
To the ignorant it might seem grotesque, incredible even, but not to those who had really studied life and the eddying currents of life.
In life, almost all that is said to be impossible happens at times, though perhaps not often.
And who knows, who can say with absolute certainty, that he or she is not an exception, was not born an exception?
As Miss Van Tuyn watched Arabian drawing the curtains across the windows which looked upon the Thames she did not know positively that she would not marry him.
She remembered her sensation under his kiss.
It had been a sensation of absolute surrender.
That was why she had shut her eyes.
She might shut her eyes again.
He might even make her do that.
After the curtains were drawn, and only the light from the fire lit up the room, Arabian went over to the piano, a baby grand, and sat down on the music-stool.
He was looking very grave, almost romantically grave, but quite un-self-conscious.
She wondered whether, even now, he cared what she thought about him.
He showed none of the diffidence of the not-yet-accepted lover, eager to please, anxious about the future.
But he showed nothing of triumph.
The firelight played over his face as he struck a few chords.
She wondered whether his manservant was with them in the flat, or whether they were quite alone--shut in together.
He had not offered her tea.
Perhaps the man had gone out.
She did not feel afraid of Arabian at this moment.
After what he had said she knew she had no reason to be afraid of him just now.
But if she gave herself to him, if they ever were married?
How would it be then?
Life with him would surely be an extraordinary business.
She remembered her solicitude about not being seen with him in public places.
Already that seemed long ago.
Dick Garstin had told her she had travelled.
No doubt that was true.
One may travel far perhaps in mind and in feeling without being self-consciously aware of it.
But when one was aware, when one knew, it must surely be possible to stop.
He had made to her a tremendous suggestion.
She could refuse to entertain it.
And when she refused, if she did refuse, what would happen?
What would he say, do, when he realized her determination?
How would he take a determined refusal?
She could not imagine.
But she knew that she could not imagine Arabian ever yielding his will to hers in any big matter which would seriously upset his life.
“Now, shall I sing to you?” he said, fixing his eyes upon her.
“Yes, please do,” she answered, looking away from him into the fire.
“You know how I sing.
I am not a musician of cultivation, but I have music in me.
I have always had it.
I have always sung, even as a boy.
It is natural to me.
But I have been very idle in my life.
I have never been able to work, alas!”

She looked at him again.
Always he was playing softly, improvising.
“Have you really never done any work?”

“Never.
Unfortunately, perhaps, I have always had enough money to be idle.”

“He’s not poor!” she thought.
And then she felt glad, suddenly remembering how rich she was now, since the death of her father.
He said nothing more, but played a short prelude and began to sing in his small, but warm, tenor voice.
And, sitting there by the fire, she watched him while he sang, and wondered again, as she had wondered in the studio, at the musical sense that was in him and that could show itself so easily and completely, without apparently any strong effort.
The fascination she felt in him filled all his music, and appealed not only to her senses but to her musical understanding.
She had a genuine passion for the right in all the arts, for the inevitable word in literature, the inevitable touch of colour that lights up a painting, fusing the whole into harmony, the inevitable emotional colouring of a musical phrase, the slackening or quickening of time, which make a song exactly what it should be.
And to that passion he was able to appeal with his gift.
He sang two Italian songs, and she felt Italy in them.
Then he sang in French, and finally in Spanish--guitar songs.
And presently she gave herself entirely to him as a singer.
He had temperament, and she loved that.
It meant, perhaps, too much to her.
That, no doubt, was what drew her to him more surely than his remarkable physical beauty--temperament which has the keys of so many doors, and can open them at will, showing glimpses of wonderful rooms, and of gardens bathed in sunshine or steeped in mysterious twilight, and of savage wastes, the wilderness, the windy tracts by the sea, landscapes in snow, autumn breathing in mist; temperament which can even simulate knowledge, and can rouse all the under-longings which so often lie sleeping and unknown in women.
“With that man I could never be dull!”

That thought slipped through her while she listened.
Where did he come from?
In how many lands had he lived?
How had his life been passed?
She ought to know.
Perhaps some day he would tell her.
He must surely tell her.
One cannot do great things which affect one’s life in the dark.
Dark--that’s his word!
When had she thought that?
She remembered.
It had been in that room.
And since then she had seen Garstin’s terrible portrait.
But he was like a palm tree singing.
Even Garstin had been forced to say that of him.
When at last he stopped all the artistic part of her was under his spell.
He had, perhaps deliberately, perhaps at haphazard--she could not tell--aroused in her a great longing for multifarious experiences such as she had never yet suffered under or enjoyed.
He had let her recklessness loose from its tethering chain.
Was she just then the same woman who a short time ago had feared Minnie Birchington’s curious eyes?
She could scarcely believe it.
He got up from the piano.
She too got up.
He came up to her, put his hands on her shoulders gently, pressed them, contracting his strong brown fingers, and said, looking down into her eyes:

“How beautiful you are!
Mon Dieu!
how beautiful you are!”

And her vanity was gratified as it had never been gratified before by all the compliments she had received, by all the longings she had aroused in men.
Still holding her shoulders he said:

“Do something for me to-night.”

“What is it?
What do you want?”

“Oh, only a very simple thing.”

She felt disappointed, but she said nothing.
“Let us dine together to-night!
Afterwards I will take you to your hotel and leave you to think.”

He smiled down at her.
“I am no longer afraid to let you think.
Will you come?”

“Yes,” she said.
“Where was it you were walking to that night when I was so rude as to follow after you?”

“To a restaurant in Soho.”

“Yes?”

“To the _Bella Napoli_.”

“_Napoli_!”

He half shut his eyes.
“I love Naples.
Is it Italian?”

“Yes.”

“Really Italian?”

“Yes.”

“Let us go there.
And before we go I will sing you a street song of Naples.”

“You--you are not a Neapolitan?” she asked.
“No.
I come from South America.
But I know Naples very, very well.
Listen!”

And almost laughing, and looking suddenly buffo, he spoke a few sentences in the Neapolitan patois.
“Ah, they are rascals there!
But one forgives them because they are happy in their naughtiness, or at any rate they seem happy.
And there is nothing like happiness for getting forgiveness.
We will be happy to-night, and we shall get forgiven.
We will go to the _Bella Napoli_.”

She did not say “yes” or “no.” She was thinking at that moment of Craven and Adela Sellingworth.
It was just possible that they might be there.
But if they were?
What did it matter?
Minnie Birchington had seen her with Arabian.
Lady Archie Brooke had seen her.
Craven had seen her.
And why should she be ashamed.
Ought and ought not!
Had she ever been governed in her life and her doing by fear of opinion?
“Do you say yes?” he asked.
“Or must you go back to dear Mademoiselle Cronin?”

She shook her head.
“Then what do you say?”

“Yes, I’ll go there with you,” she answered.
But there was a sound of defiance in her voice, and at that moment she had a feeling that she was going to do something more decisively unconventional, even more dangerous, than she had ever yet done.
If _they_ were there!
She remembered Craven’s look at Arabian.
She remembered, too, the change in Arabian’s face as Craven had passed them.
But Craven had gone back to Adela Sellingworth.
Arabian, perhaps, had been the cause of that return.
“Why do you look like that?
What are you thinking of?”

“Naples,” she said.
“I will sing you the street song.
And then, presently, we will go.
I know we must not be too late, or your dear Mademoiselle Cronin will be frightened about you.”

He left her, and went once more to the piano.
CHAPTER IV

About seven o’clock that evening Lady Sellingworth was sitting alone in her drawing-room.
Sir Seymour Portman had been with her for an hour and had left her at half past six, believing that she was going to spend one of her usual solitary evenings, probably with a book by the fire.
He would gladly, even thankfully, have stayed to keep her company.
But no suggestion of that kind had been made to him.
And, beyond calling regularly at the hour when he believed that he was welcome, he never pressed his company upon his dearly loved friend.
Even in his great affection he preserved a certain ceremoniousness.
Even in his love he never took a liberty.
In modern days he still held to the reserve of the very great gentleman, old-fashioned perhaps now, but nevertheless precious in his sight.
He would have been not a little surprised had he been able to see his Adela at this moment.
She had changed the plain black gown in which she had received him, and was dressed in dark red velvet.
She wore a black hat.
Two big rubies gleamed in her ears, and there was another, surrounded with diamonds, at her throat.
Her gown was trimmed with an edging of some dark fur.
As usual her hands were covered by loose white gloves.
She was shod for walking out.
Her eyebrows had been carefully darkened.
There was some artificial red on her lips.
Her white hair was fluffed out under the hat brim, and looked very thick and vital.
Her white skin was smooth and even.
Her eyes shone, as Cecile had just told her, “_comme deux lampes_.” She was a striking figure as she sat on her sofa very upright near a lamp, holding a book in her hand.
She even looked very handsome and, of course, very distinguished.
But her face was anxious, her bright eyes were uneasy, and there was a perceptible stamp of artificiality upon her.
A woman would have noticed it instantly.
Even an observant man would probably not have missed it.
She seemed to be reading at first, and presently there was a faint rustle.
She had turned a page.
But soon she put the book down in her lap, still keeping her hand on it, and sat looking about the room.
The clock chimed seven.
She moved and sighed.
Then again she sat very still like one listening.
After a while she lifted the book, glanced at it again, and then put it down, got up and went to the fireplace.
She turned on the lights there, leaned forward and looked into the glass.
Her face became stern with intentness when she did that.
She put up a hand to her hair, turned her head a little to one side, smiled faintly, then a little more, and looked grave, then earnest.
Finally she put both her hands on the mantelpiece, grasped it and stared into the glass.
In that moment she was feeling afraid.
She had arranged to dine with Alick Craven once more at the _Bella Napoli_.
He would come for her in a few minutes.
She was wondering very much how exactly she would appear to him, how old, how good-looking--or plain.
She had tried, with Cecile’s help, to look her very best.
Cecile had declared the result was a success.
“_Miladi est merveilleusement belle ce soir, mais vraiment belle!_” But a maid, of course, would not scruple to lie about such a matter.
One could not depend on a maid’s word.
She was in love with Alick Craven, desperately in love as only an elderly woman can be with a man much younger than herself.
And that love made her afraid.
There was a tiny mole on her face, near the mouth.
She wished she had had it removed in Geneva.
Why had not she had that done?
No doubt because she was so accustomed to it that for years she had never thought of it, had never even seen it.
Now suddenly she saw it, and it seemed to her noticeable, an ugly blemish.
Anyone who looked at her must surely look at it, think of it.
For a moment she felt desperate about it, and her whole body was suddenly hot as if a flame went over it.
Then the mocking look came into her eyes.
She was trying to laugh at herself.
“He doesn’t think of me in _that_ way!
No man will ever think of me in _that_ way again!”

But the mocking expression died out and the fear did not go.
She was afraid of Craven’s young eyes.
It was terrible to feel so humble, so full of trembling diffidence.
Oh, for a moment of the conquering sensation she had sometimes known in the years long ago when men had made her aware of her power!
Since their meeting in Dindie Ackroyde’s drawing-room her friendship with Craven, renewed, had grown into something like intimacy.
But there was an uneasiness in it which she felt acutely.
There were humbug and fear in this friendship.
Because she was desperately in love she was forced to be insincere with Craven.
Haunted perpetually by the fear of losing what she had, the liking of a man who was not, and could never be, in love with her, she had to give Craven the impression that she was beyond the age of love, that the sensations of love were dead in her beyond hope of resurrection.
She had to play at detachment when her one desire was to absorb and to be absorbed, had to sustain an appearance of physical coldness while she was burning with physical fever.
She had to create a false atmosphere about her, and to do it so cleverly that it seemed absolutely genuine, the emanation of her personality in unstudied naturalness.
Her lack of all affection helped her to deceive.
Though in moments she might seem constrained, oddly remote, frigidly detached, she was never affected.
Now and then Craven had wondered about her, but he had never guessed that she was acting a part.
The charm of her was still active about him, and it was the charm of apparent sincerity.
To him so far the false atmosphere seemed real, and he was not aware of the fear.
Lady Sellingworth feared being found out by Craven, and feared what might happen if he found out that she was in love with him.
She feared her age and the addition each passing day made to it.
She feared her natural appearance, and now strove to conceal it as much as possible without being unskilful or blatant.
And she feared the future terribly.
For Time galloped now.
She often felt herself rushing towards the abyss of the seventies.
The worst of it all was that in humbug she was never at ease.
Instead of, like many women, living comfortably in insincerity, she longed to be sincere.
To love as she did and be insincere was abominable to her.
To her insincerity now seemed to be the direct contradiction of love.
Often when she was deceiving Alick Craven she felt almost criminal.
Perhaps if she had been much younger she might not have been so troubled in the soul by the necessity for constant pretence.
But to those who are of any real worth the years bring a growing need of sincerity, a growing hunger which only true things can satisfy.
And she knew that need and suffered that hunger.
She was feeling it now as she waited for Craven.
She longed to be able to let him see her as she was and to be accepted by him as she was.
But he would not accept her.
She knew that.
He did not want her as she wanted him.
He was satisfied with things as they were.
She was at a terrible disadvantage with him, for she was in his power, while he was not in hers.
He could ruin such happiness as she now had.
But she could not ruin his happiness.
If he gave her up she would be broken, though probably no one would know it.
But if she gave him up he would not mind very much, though no doubt his pride would be hurt.
Perhaps, even now, she was only a palliative in his life.
Beryl Van Tuyn had evidently treated him badly.
He turned to others for some casual consolation.
Lady Sellingworth often wondered painfully what Craven felt about the American girl.
Was she only comforting Craven, playing a sort of dear old mother’s part to him?
Did he come to her because he considered her a skilful binder up of wounds?
Could Beryl whenever she chose take him away?
Lady Sellingworth’s instinct told her that while she had been abroad Craven and Beryl had travelled in their friendship.
But she did not yet know exactly how far Craven had gone.
It seemed evident now that Beryl had been suddenly diverted, no doubt by some strong influence, on to another track; Lady Sellingworth knew that she and Craven were no longer meeting.
Something had happened which had interfered with their intimacy.
Rumour said that Beryl Van Tuyn was in love with another man, with this Nicolas Arabian, whom nobody knew.
Everyone in the Coombe set was talking about it.
How keenly did Craven feel this sudden defection?
That it had hurt his young pride Lady Sellingworth was certain.
But she was not certain whether it had seriously wounded his heart.
“Am I a palliative?” she thought as she gazed into the glass.
And then came the terrible question:

“How can I be anything else?”

She heard the door opening behind her, took her hands from the mantelpiece, and turned round quickly.
“Mr.
Craven, my lady.”

“You’re all ready?
Capital!
I say, am I late?”

“No.
It’s only a little past seven.”

He had taken her hand.
She longed to press his, but she did not press it.
He looked at her, she thought, rather curiously.
“I’ve got a taxi at the door.
It’s rather a horrid night.
You’re not dressed for walking?”

Again his look seemed to question her.
She put up a hand to her face, near the mouth, nervously.
“We had better drive.
In these winter evenings walking isn’t very pleasant.
We must be a little less Bohemian in taste, mustn’t we?”

He seemed now slightly constrained.
His eyes did not rest upon her quite naturally, she thought.
“Shall we go down?” she said.
“Yes, do let us.”

As she moved to go she looked into the glass.
She could not help doing that.
He noticed it, and thought:

“I wonder why she has begun making her face up like this?”

He did not like it.
He preferred her as she had been when he had first come to her house on an autumn evening.
To him there was something almost distressing in this change which he noticed specially to-night.
And her look into the glass had shown him that she was preoccupied about her appearance.
Such a preoccupation on her part seemed foreign to her character as he had conceived of it.
Her greatest charm had been her extraordinary lack, or apparent lack, of all self-consciousness.
She had never seemed to bother about herself, to be thinking of the impression she was making on others.
But she was certainly looking very handsome.
She put on a fur.
They got into the cab and drove to Soho.
Craven had ordered the table in the window to be reserved for them.
The restaurant was fairly, but not quite, full.
The musicians were in their accustomed places looking very Italian.
The lustrous _padrona_ smiled a greeting to them from her counter.
Their bright-eyed waitress hurried up and welcomed them in Italian.
Vesuvius erupted at them from the walls.
There was a cozy warmth in the unpretentious room, an atmosphere of careless intimacy and good fellowship.
“Let me take off your fur!”

She slipped out of it, and he hung it up on a hook among hats and coats which looked as if they could never have anything to do with it.
“I’ll sit with my back to the window,” she said.
She sat down, and he sat on her left facing the entrance.
Then the menu was brought, and they began to consult about what they would eat.
She did not care what it was, but she pretended to care very much.
To do that was part of the game.
If only she could think of all this as a game, could take it lightly, merrily!
She resolved to make a strong effort to conquer the underlying melancholy which had accompanied her into this new friendship, and which she could not shake off.
It came from a lost battle, from a silent and great defeat.
She was afraid of it, for it was black and profound beyond all plumbing.
Often in her ten years of retirement she had felt melancholy.
But this was a new sort of sadness.
There was an acrid edge to it.
It had the peculiar and subtle terror of a grief that was not caused only by events, but also, and specially, by something within herself.
“Gnocchi--we must have gnocchi!”

“Oh, yes.”

“But wait, though!
There are ravioli!
It would hardly do to have both, I suppose, would it?”

“No; they are too much alike.”

“Then which shall we have?”

She was going to say, “I don’t mind!” but remembered her role and said:

“Please, ravioli for me.”

And she believed that she said it with gusto, as if she really did care.
“For me too!” said Craven.
And he went on considering and asking, with his dark head bent over the menu and his blue eyes fixed upon it.
“There!
That ought to be a nice dinner!” he said, at last.
“And for wine Chianti, I suppose?”

“Yes, Chianti Rosso,” she answered, with the definiteness, she hoped, of the epicure.
This small fuss about what they were going to eat marked for her the severing difference between Craven’s mental attitude at this moment and hers.
For him this little dinner was merely a pleasant way of spending a casual evening in the company of one who was kind to him, whom he found sympathetic, whom he admired probably as a striking representative of an era that was past, the Edwardian era.
For her it was an event full of torment and joy.
The joy came from being alone with him.
But she was tortured by yearnings which he knew nothing of.
He was able to give himself out to her naturally.
She was obliged to hold herself in, to conceal the horrible fact that she was obsessed by him, that she was longing to commit sacrifices for him, to take him as her exclusive possession, to surround him with love and worship.
He wanted from her what she was apparently giving him and nothing more.
She wanted from him all that he was not giving her and would never give her.
The dinner would be a tranquil pleasure for him, and a quivering torture for her, mingled with some moments of forgetfulness in which she would have a brief illusion of happiness.
She made the comparison and thought with despair of the unevenness of Fate.
Meanwhile she was smiling and praising the vegetable soup sprinkled with Parmesan cheese.
One of the musicians came up to their table, and inquired whether the _signora_ would like any special thing played.
Lady Sellingworth shook her head.
She was afraid of their songs of the South, and dared not choose one.
“Anything you like!” she said.
“They are all much the same,” she added to Craven.
“But I thought you were so fond of the songs of Naples and the Bay.
Don’t you remember that first evening when--”

“Yes, I remember,” she interrupted him, almost sharply.
“But still these songs are really all very much alike.
They all express the same sort of thing--Neapolitan desires.”

“And not only Neapolitan desires, I should say,” said Craven.
At that moment a hard look came into his eyes, a grimness altered his mouth.
His face completely changed, evidently under the influence of some sudden and keen gust of feeling.
He slightly bent his head, and the colour rose in his cheeks.
Lady Sellingworth who, for the moment, had been wholly intent on Craven, now looked to see what had caused this sudden and evidently uncontrollable exhibition of feeling.
She saw two people, a tall girl and a man, walking down the restaurant towards the further end.
The girl she immediately recognized.
“Oh--there’s Beryl!” she said.
Her heart sank as she looked at Craven.
“Yes,” he said.
“Did she see me?”

“I don’t know.
Probably she did.
But she seemed in a hurry.”

“Oh!
Whom is she with?”

“That fellow they are all talking about, Arabian.
At least, I suppose so.
Anyhow, it’s the fellow I saw in Glebe Place.
Ah, there they go with _Sole mio_!”

The musicians were beginning the melody of which Italians never seem to weary.
Lady Sellingworth listened to it as she looked down the long and narrow room now crowded with people.
Beryl Van Tuyn was standing by a table near the wall.
Lady Sellingworth saw her in profile.
Her companion stood beside her with his back to the room.
Lady Sellingworth noticed that he was tall with an athletic figure, that he was broad-shouldered, that his head was covered with thickly growing brown hair.
He gave her the impression of a strong and good-looking man.
She gazed at him with an interest she scarcely understood at that moment, an interest surely more intense than even the gossip she had heard about him warranted.
He helped Miss Van Tuyn out of her coat, then took off his, and went to hang them on a stand against the wall.
In doing this he turned, and for a moment showed his profile to Lady Sellingworth.
She saw the line of his brown face, his arm raised, his head slightly thrown back.
So that was Nicolas Arabian, the man all the women in the Coombe set were gossiping about!
She could not see him very well.
He was rather a long way off, and two moving people, a waitress carrying food, an Italian man going to speak to a gesticulating friend, intervened and shut him out from her sight while he was still arranging the coats.
But there was something in his profile, something in his movement and in the carriage of his head which seemed familiar to her.
And she drew her brows together, wondering.
Craven spoke to her through the music.
She looked at him, answered him.
Then once more she glanced down the room.
Beryl and Arabian had sat down.
Beryl was facing her.
Arabian was at the side.
Lady Sellingworth still saw him in profile.
He was talking to the waitress.
“I am sure I know that man’s face!” Lady Sellingworth thought.
And she expressed her thought to Craven.
“If that is Nicolas Arabian I think I must have seen him about London,”  she said.
“His side face seems familiar to me somehow.”

Why would not Beryl look at her?
“I wonder whether Beryl saw me when she came in,” continued Lady Sellingworth.
“She saw you, of course.”

“Yes, she saw me.”

From the sound of Craven’s voice, from the constraint of his manner, Lady Sellingworth gathered the knowledge that her evening was spoilt.
A few minutes before she had been quivering with anxiety, had been struggling to conquer the melancholy which, she knew, put her at a disadvantage with Craven, had been seized with despair as she compared her fate with his.
Now she looked back at that beginning of the evening and thought of it as happy.
For Craven had seemed contented then.
Now he was obviously restless, ill at ease.
He never looked down the room.
He devoted himself to her.
He talked even more than usual.
But she was aware of effort in it all, and knew that his thoughts were with Beryl Van Tuyn and the stranger who seemed vaguely familiar to her.
Formerly--with what intensity she remembered, visualized, the occasions--Craven had been restless with Beryl Van Tuyn because he wished to be with her; now he was restless with her.
And she did not need to ask herself why.
This remembrance made her feel angry in her despair.
Her hatred of Beryl revived.
She recalled the girl’s cruelty to her.
Now Beryl had been cruel to Craven.
And yet Craven was longing after her.
What was the good of kindness, of the warm heart full of burning desires to be of use, to comfort, to bring joy into a life?
The cruel fascinated, perhaps were even loved.
Men were bored by any love that was wholly unselfish.
But was her love unselfish?
She put that question from her.
She felt injured, wounded.
It was difficult for her any longer to conceal her misery.
But she tried to talk cheerfully, naturally.
She forced her lips to smile.
She praised the excellence of the cooking, the efforts of the musicians.
Nevertheless the conversation presently languished.
There was no spontaneity in it.
All around them loud voices were talking volubly in Italian.
She glanced from table to table.
It seemed to her that everyone was feeling happy and at ease except herself and Craven.
They were ill matched.
She became horribly self-conscious.
She felt as if people were looking at them with surprise, as if an undercurrent of ridicule was creeping through the room.
Surely many were wondering who the painted old woman and the young man were, why they sat together in the corner by the window!
She saw one of the musicians smile and whisper to the companion beside him, and felt certain he was speaking about her, was smiling, at some ugly thought which he had just put into words.
To an Italian she must certainly seem an old wreck of a woman, “_una vecchia_,” an object of contempt, or of smiling pity.
She looked down at her red dress, remembered the jewels in her ears and at her throat.
How useless and absurd were her efforts to look her best!
A terrible phrase of Caroline Briggs came into her mind: “I feel as if I were looking at bones decked out in jewels.” And again she was back in Paris ten years ago; again she saw a contrast bizarre as the contrast she and Craven now presented to the crowd in the restaurant.
Before the eyes of her mind there rose an old woman in a black wig and a marvellously handsome young man.
Suddenly a thrill shot through her.
It was like a sharp physical pain, a sword-thrust of agony.
That profile which had seemed vaguely familiar to her just now, was it not like his profile?
She tried to reason with herself, to tell herself that she was yielding to a crazy fancy, brought about by her nervous excitement and by the mental pain she was suffering.
Many men slightly, sometimes markedly, resemble other men.
One face seen in profile is often very much like another.
But the even dark brown of the complexion!
That was not very common, not the type of complexion one sees every day.
She glanced at the men near to her.
Most of them were Italians and swarthy.
But not one had that peculiar, almost bronze-like darkness.
Beryl had spoken of “a living bronze.”

Craven was speaking to her again.
She forced herself to reply to him, though she scarcely knew what she was saying.
She saw a look of surprise in the eyes which he fixed on her.
“Isn’t it getting very hot?” she said quickly.
“It is rather hot.
Shall I ask them to open the window a little?
But it is just behind you.”

“It doesn’t matter.
I have brought my fan.”

She picked the fan up and began to use it unsteadily.
“The room is so very crowded to-night,” she murmured.
“Yes.
No wonder with such cooking.
Here is the Zabaione.”

The waitress put two large glasses before them filled with the thick yellow custard, then brought them a plate of biscuits.
Lady Sellingworth laid down the fan and picked up her spoon.
She must eat.
But she did not know how she was going to force herself to do it.
Although she kept on saying to herself: “It’s impossible!” she could not get rid of the horrible suspicion which had assailed her.
On the contrary, it seemed to grow in her till it was almost a conviction.
She tried to eat tranquilly.
She praised the Zabaione.
She sipped her Chianti Rosso.
But she tasted nothing, and when the musicians struck up another melody she did not know what they were playing.
“Are you tired of it?”

Craven had spoken to her.
“Of what?” she asked, as if almost startled.
“That--Santa Lucia?”

“Oh--is it?”

He looked astonished.
“Oh--yes, I must say I am rather sick of it!” she said quickly.
She laid down her spoon.
“Don’t you like the Zabaione?”

“Yes, it’s delicious.
But I have had enough.
You ordered such a very good dinner!”

She began to use her fan again.
The noise of voices in the room was becoming like the noise of voices in a nightmare.
She was longing to confirm or banish her suspicion by a long look at Beryl’s companion.
She felt sure now that if she looked again at Arabian she would be absolutely certain, even from a distance, whether he was or was not the man who had brought about the robbery of her jewels at the Gard du Nord ten years ago.
Her mind was fully awake now, and she would be able to see.
But, knowing that, she did not dare to look towards Arabian.
She was miserable in her uncertainty, but she was afraid of having her horrible suspicion confirmed.
She was a coward at that moment, and she knew it.
Craven finished his Zabaione and put down his spoon.
They had not ordered another course.
The dinner was over.
But they had not had their coffee yet, and he asked for it.
“Are you going to smoke a Toscana?” she said, forcing herself to smile.
“Yes, I think I will.
Do let me give you a cigarette.”

He drew out his case and offered it to her.
She took a cigarette, lit it, and began to smoke.
Their coffee was brought.
“Oh, it’s too hot to drink!” she said, almost irritably.
“But we aren’t in a hurry, are we?” he said, looking at her with surprise.
“No, of course not.”

Now she was gazing resolutely down at the tablecloth.
She was afraid to raise her eyes, was afraid of what they might see.
Her whole mind now was bent upon getting away from the restaurant as soon as possible.
She had decided to go without making sure whether Arabian was the man who had robbed her or not.
Even uncertainty would surely be better than a certainty that might bring in its train necessities too terrible to contemplate mentally.
As she was looking down she did not see something which just then happened in the room.
It was this:

Miss Van Tuyn, who had not said a word to Arabian of her friends who were dining by the window, although she guessed that he had probably noticed Alick Craven when they came in, resolved to take a bold step.
It was useless any longer to play for concealment.
Since she came out to dine in public with Arabian, since he had asked her to marry him and she had not refused--though she had not accepted--since she knew very well that she had not the will power to send him out of her life, she resolved to do what she had not done in Glebe Place and introduce him to Craven.
She even decided that if it seemed possible that the two men could get on amicably for a few minutes she would go a step farther; she would introduce Arabian to Adela Sellingworth.
Adela should see that she, Beryl, was absolutely indifferent to what Craven did, or did not do.
And Craven should be made to understand that she went on her way happily without him, and not with an old man, though he had chosen as his companion an old woman.
And, incidentally, she would put Arabian to the test which had been missed in Glebe Place.
With this determination in her mind she said to Arabian:

“There are two friends of mine at the table in the corner by the window.”

“Yes?” he said.
And he turned his head to look.
As he did so, perhaps influenced by his eyes, or by the fact that the attention of two minds was at that moment concentrated on him, Craven looked towards them.
“I want to introduce you to them if possible,” said Miss Van Tuyn.
And she made a gesture to Craven, beckoned to him to come to her.
He looked surprised, reluctant.
She saw that he flushed slightly.
But she persisted in her invitation.
She had lost her head in Glebe Place, but now she would retrieve the situation.
Vanity, fear, an obscure jealousy, and something else pushed her on.
And she beckoned again.
She saw Craven lean over and say something to Lady Sellingworth.
Then he got up and came down the room towards her, threading his way among the many tables.
Miss Van Tuyn was looking at him just then and not at Arabian.
Craven came up, looking stiff, almost awkward, and markedly more English than usual.
At least she thought so.
“How d’you do, Miss Van Tuyn?
How are you?”

She gave him her hand with a smile.
“Very well!
You see, I’ve not forgotten my old haunts.
And I see you haven’t, either.
Let me introduce you to my friend, Mr. Arabian.
Mr. Craven--Mr. Arabian.”

Arabian got up and bowed.
“Pleased to meet you!” he said in a formal voice.
“Good evening!” said Craven, staring hard at him.
“I mustn’t ask you to sit down,” said Miss Van Tuyn.
“As you are tied up with Adela.
But”--she hesitated for an instant, then continued with hardihood--“can’t you persuade Adela to join us for coffee?”

At this moment Arabian made a movement and opened his lips as if about to say something.
“Yes?” she said, looking at him.
“I was only going to say that these tables are so very small.
Is it not so?
How should we manage?”

“Oh, we can tuck in somehow.”

She turned again to Craven.
“Do ask her.
Or we might come over to you.”

“Very well!” said Craven, still stiffly.
He glanced round towards the window and started.
“What’s the matter?”

Miss Van Tuyn leaned forward and looked.
There was no longer anyone sitting at the table by the window.
Lady Sellingworth had disappeared.
CHAPTER V

“What has become of Adela?” exclaimed Miss Van Tuyn.
“I haven’t the least idea,” said Craven, looking uncomfortable.
“Perhaps--She complained of the heat just now.
She may have gone to the door to get some air.
Please forgive me!”

He glanced from Miss Van Tuyn to Arabian, who was still standing up stiffly, with a rigidly polite expression on his face.
“I must just see!”

He turned away and walked down the restaurant.
When he got to the counter where the _padrona_ sat enthroned he found their waitress standing near it.
“Where is the signora?” he asked.
“The signora took her fur and went out, signorino,” said the woman.
“The bill, please!”

“_Ecco, signorino!_”

The woman presented the bill.
Craven paid it, tipped her, got his coat and hat, and went hurriedly out.
He expected to find Lady Sellingworth on the doorstep, but no one was there, and he looked down the street, first to the right, then to the left.
In the distance on the left he saw the tall figure of a woman walking slowly near a lamp-post, and he hurried down the street.
As his footsteps rang on the pavement the woman turned round, and showed the white face and luminous eyes of Lady Sellingworth.
“You have given me quite a turn, as the servants say!” he exclaimed, coming up to her.
“What is the matter?
Are you ill?”

He looked anxiously at her.
“What made you go away so suddenly?
You didn’t mind my--”

“No, no!” she interrupted.
“But I do feel unwell.
I feel very unwell.”

“I’m most awfully sorry!
Why didn’t you tell me?
Why did you let me leave you?”

“Beryl wanted you.”

“It was only--she only wanted to suggest our all having coffee together.”

Her mouth went awry.
“Oh, do take my arm!” he exclaimed.
“What is it?
Are you suffering?”

After a pause she said:

“Yes.”

There seemed to him something ominous in the sound of the word as she spoke it.
“I’m horribly sorry.
I must find you a cab.”

“Yes, please do.”

“But in Soho, it’s so difficult!
Can you manage--can you walk a little way?”

“Oh yes.”

“Directly we get into Shaftesbury Avenue we are sure to see one.
It’s only a step.”

She had taken his arm, but she did not lean heavily on it, only just touched it.
He hardly felt the weight of her hand.
Evidently she was not feeling faint, or very weak.
He wondered intensely what was the matter.
But she did not give any explanation.
She had made that ominous answer to his question, and there she left it.
He did not dare to make any further inquiry, and as she said nothing they walked on in silence.
As they were turning into Shaftesbury Avenue an empty taxicab passed them with the flag up.
“There’s a taxi!” said Craven.
“One minute!”

He let her arm go and ran after it, while she stood waiting at the corner.
In a moment he came back followed by the cab, which drew up by the kerb.
He opened the door and she got in.
He was preparing to follow her when she leaned forward and put her hand on the door.
“Mayn’t I?
Don’t you wish me to come with you?”

She shook her head.
“But do let me see you home.
If you are ill you really oughtn’t to be alone.”

“But I’m spoiling your evening.
Why not go back?”

“Go back?”

“Yes--go back to Beryl?”

He stiffened, and the hard look came into his face.
She saw his jaw quiver slightly.
“To Miss Van Tuyn?
But she is with someone.”

“But she asked you!”

“She asked both of us.
I shall certainly not go back alone.”

“Really, I wish you would!
Go back and--and see Beryl home.”

He looked at her in astonishment.
“Oh, I couldn’t possibly do that!
There was no suggestion--I couldn’t do that, really.
I wonder you ask me to.
Well--”

She took her hand away from the door and he shut it.
But he remained beside it--did not give the chauffeur her address.
“Why won’t you let me take you back?” he said.
“I don’t understand.”

She smiled, and he thought it was the saddest smile he had ever seen.
“One is only a bore to others when one is ill,” she said.
“Good-bye.
Tell the man, please.”

He obeyed her, then took off his hat.
His face was grim and perplexed.
As she was driven away in the night she gave him a strange look; tragic and pleading, he thought, a look that almost frightened him, that sent a shiver through him.
“Is she horribly ill?” he asked himself.
“What can it be?
Perhaps she did go to Switzerland to see a doctor.
Perhaps .
.
.
can he have condemned her to death?”

He shivered again.
The expression of her eyes haunted him.
He stood for a moment at the street corner, pondering over her words.
What could have induced her to ask him to go back to Beryl Van Tuyn, to see Beryl Van Tuyn home?
She wanted him to interfere between Miss Van Tuyn and that man, Nicolas Arabian!
She tried metaphorically to push him towards Miss Van Tuyn.
It was inexplicable.
Lady Sellingworth was a woman of the world, past mistress of all the _convenances_, one in whom any breach of good manners was impossible, unthinkable!
And yet she had asked him to go back to the restaurant, and to thrust himself into the company of a girl and a man who were dining by themselves.
She had even asked him, a young fellow, certainly younger than Beryl Van Tuyn’s escort, to play the part of chaperon to the girl!
Did she--could she know something about Arabian?
Certainly she did not know him.
In the restaurant she had inquired who he was.
But, later, she had said that his profile seemed familiar to her, that perhaps she had seen him about London.
Her departure from the restaurant had been strangely abrupt.
Perhaps--could she have recognized Arabian after he, Craven, had left her alone and had gone to speak to Miss Van Tuyn?
The man looked a wrong ‘un.
Craven felt certain he was a wrong ‘un.
But if so, surely Lady Sellingworth could not know him, or even know anything about him.
There was something so remote and distinguished about her life, her solitary, retired life.
She did not come in contact with such people.
“Get you a kib, gentleman?” said a soft cockney voice in Craven’s ear.
He started, and walked on quickly.
In Lady Sellingworth’s conduct that night, in the last look she had given him, there was mystery.
He was quite unable to fathom it, and he went home to his flat in the greatest perplexity, and feeling very uneasy.
When Murgatroyd opened the door to his mistress it was not much after nine, and he was surprised to see her back so early and alone.
“Tea, please, Murgatroyd!” she said.
“Yes, my lady.”

She passed by him and ascended the big staircase.
He heard her go into the drawing-room and shut the door.
When, a few minutes later, he brought in the tea, she was standing by the fire.
She had taken off her big hat and laid it on a table.
“I shall want nothing more.
Good night.”

“Good night, my lady.”

He went towards the door.
When he was just going out he heard her say, “Murgatroyd!” and turned.
“My lady!”

“Please let Cecile know I shan’t want her to-night.
She is not to sit up for me.
I’ll manage for myself.”

“Yes, my lady.”

“Make it quite understood, please.”

“Certainly, my lady.”

He went out and shut the door.
When she was quite alone Lady Sellingworth stood for several minutes by the fire quite still, with her head bent down and her hands folded together.
Then she went to the tea table, poured out a cup of tea, sat down and sipped it slowly, looking into vacancy with the eyes of one whose real gaze was turned inwards upon herself.
She finished the tea, sat still for a little while, then got up, went to the writing-table, sat before it, took a pen and a sheet of note-paper, and began slowly to write.
She wrote first at the top of the sheet in the left-hand corner, “Strictly private,” and underlined the words.
Then she wrote:

“DEAR BERYL,--Please consider this letter absolutely private and personal.
I rely on your never speaking of it to anyone, and I ask you to burn it directly you have read it.
Although I hate more than anything else interfering in the private affairs of another, I feel that it is my absolute duty to send this to you.
I am a very much older woman than you--indeed, almost an old woman.
I know the world very well--too well--and I feel I can ask you to trust me when I give you a piece of advice, however unpleasant it may seem at the moment.
You were dining to-night alone with a man who is totally unfit to be your companion, or the companion of any decent woman.
I cannot explain to you how I know this, nor can I tell you why he is unfit to be in any reputable company.
But I solemnly assure you--I give you my word--that I am telling you the truth.
That man is a blackguard in the full acceptation of the word.
I believe you met him by chance in a studio.
I am quite positive that you know nothing whatever about him.
I do.
I know--”

She hesitated, leaning over the paper with the pen lifted, frowning painfully and with a look of fear in her eyes.
Then her face hardened in an expression of white resolution, and she wrote:

“I know that he ought to be in prison.
He is beyond the pale.
You must never be seen with him again.
I have said nothing of this to anyone.
Mr. Craven has not a suspicion of it.
Nor has anyone else whom we know.
Drop that man at once.
I don’t think he will ask you for your reason.
His not doing so will help to prove to you that I am telling you the truth.--Yours sincerely,

“ADELA SELLINGWORTH.”

When she had finished this letter Lady Sellingworth read it over carefully twice, then put it into an envelope and wrote on the envelope Beryl’s address, and in the corner “strictly private.” But having done this she did not fasten the envelope, though she lit a red candle that was on the table and took up a stick of sealing-wax.
Again hesitation seized her.
The written word remains.
Might it not be very dangerous to send this letter?
Suppose Beryl did show it to that man who called himself Nicolas Arabian?
He might--it was improbable, but he might--bring an action for libel against the writer.
Lady Sellingworth sickened as she thought of that, and rapidly she imagined a hideous scandal, all London talking of her, the Law Courts, herself in the witness-box, cross-examination.
What evidence could she give to prove that the accusation she had written was true?
But surely Beryl would not show the letter.
It would be dishonourable to show it, and though she could be very cruel Lady Sellingworth did not believe that Beryl was a dishonourable girl.
But if she was in love with that man?
If she was under his influence?
Women in love, women under a spell, are capable of doing extraordinary things.
Lady Sellingworth knew that only too well.
She remembered her own madnesses, the madnesses of women she had known, women of the “old guard.” And Arabian had fascination.
She had felt it long ago.
And Beryl was young and had wildness in her.
It might be very dangerous to send that letter.
But if she did not send it, what was she going to do?
She could not leave things as they were, could not just hold her peace.
To do that would be infamous.
And she could not be infamous.
She felt the obligation of age.
Beryl had been cruel to her, but she could not leave the girl in ignorance of the character of Arabian.
If she did something horrible might happen, would almost certainly happen.
Beryl was very rich now, and no doubt that man knew it.
The death of her father had been put in all the papers.
There had been public chatter about the fortune he had left.
Men like Arabian knew what they were about.
They worked with deliberation, worked according to plan.
And Beryl was beautiful as well as rich.
Things could not be left as they were.
If she did not send that letter Lady Sellingworth told herself that she would have to see Beryl and speak to her.
She would have to say what she had written.
But that would be intolerable.
The girl would ask questions, would insist on explanations, would demand to be enlightened.
And then--As she sat by the writing-table, plunged in thought, Lady Sellingworth lost all count of time.
But at last she took the sealing-wax, put it to the candle flame, and sealed up the letter.
She had resolved that she would take the risk of sending it.
Anything was better than seeing Beryl, than speaking about this horror.
And Beryl would surely not be dishonourable.
Having sealed the letter Lady Sellingworth took it with her upstairs.
She had decided to leave it herself at Claridge’s Hotel on the morrow.
But after a wretched night she was again seized by hesitation.
A devil came and tempted her, asking her what business this was of hers, why she should interfere in this matter.
Beryl was audacious, self-possessed, accustomed to take her own way, to live as she chose, to know all sorts and conditions of men.
She was not an ignorant girl, inexperienced in the ways of the world.
She knew how to take care of herself.
Why not destroy the letter and just keep silence?
She had really no responsibility in this matter.
Beryl was only an acquaintance who had tried to harm her happiness.
And then the tempter suggested to her that by taking any action she must inevitably injure her own life.
He brought to her mind thoughts of Craven.
If she let Beryl alone the fascination of Arabian might work upon the girl so effectually that Craven would mean nothing to her any more; but if she sent the letter, or spoke, and Beryl heeded the warning, eventually, perhaps very soon, Beryl would turn again to Craven.
By warning Beryl Lady Sellingworth would very probably turn a weapon upon herself.
And she realized that fully.
For she had no expectation of real gratitude from the girl expressing itself in instinctive unselfishness.
“I should merely make an enemy by doing it,” she thought.
“Or rather two enemies.”

And she locked the letter up.
She thought she would do nothing.
But as the day wore on she was haunted by a feeling of self-hatred.
She had done many wrong things in her life, but certain types of wrong things she had never yet done.
Her sins had been the sins of what is called passion.
There had been strong feeling behind them, prompting desire, a flame, though not always the purest sort of flame.
She had not been a cold sinner.
Nor had she been a contemptible coward.
Now she was beset by an ugly sensation of cowardice which made her ill at ease with herself.
She thought of Seymour Portman.
He was able to love her, to go on loving her.
Therefore, in spite of all her caprices, in spite of all she had done, he believed in that part of her which men have agreed to call character.
She could not love him as he wished, but she had an immeasurable respect for him.
And she knew that above all the other virtues he placed courage, moral and physical.
Noblesse oblige.
He would never fail.
He considered it an obligation on those who were born in what he still thought of as the ruling class to hold their heads high in fearlessness.
And in her blood, too, ran something of the same feeling of obligation.
If she put her case before Seymour what would he tell her to do?
To ask that question was to answer it.
He would not even tell.
He would not think it necessary to do that.
She could almost hear his voice saying: “There’s only one thing to be done.”

She was loved by Seymour; she simply could not be a coward.
And she unlocked the box in which the letter was lying, and ordered her car to come round.
“Please drive to Claridge’s!” she said as she got into it.
On the way to the hotel she kept saying to herself: “Seymour!
Seymour!
It’s the only thing to do.
It’s the only thing to do.”

When the car stopped in front of the hotel she got out and went herself to the bureau.
“Please give this to Miss Van Tuyn at once.
It is very important.”

“Yes, my lady.”

“Is she in?”

“I’m not sure, my lady, but I can soon--”

“No, no, it doesn’t matter.
But it is really important.”

“It shall go up at once my lady.”

“Thank you.”

As Lady Sellingworth got into her car she felt a sense of relief.
“I’ve done the right thing.
Nothing else matters.”

CHAPTER VI

Miss Van Tuyn was not in the hotel when Lady Sellingworth called.
She did not come back till late, and when she entered the hall she was unusually pale, and looked both tired and excited.
She had been to Dick Garstin on an unpleasant errand, and she had failed in achieving what she had attempted to bring about.
Garstin had flatly refused not to exhibit Arabian’s portrait.
And she had been obliged to tell Arabian of his refusal.
The man at the bureau gave her Lady Sellingworth’s note, and she took it up with her to her sitting-room.
As she sat down to read it she noticed the words on the envelope, “Strictly private,” and wondered what it contained.
She did not recognize the handwriting as Adela’s.
She took the letter out of the envelope and saw again the warning words.
“What can it be about?”

Before she read further she felt some unpleasant information was in store for her, and for a moment she hesitated.
Then she looked at the address on the paper: “18A Berkeley Square.”

It was from Adela!
She frowned.
She felt hostile, already on the defensive, though she had, of course, no idea what the letter was about.
But when she had read it her cheeks were scarlet, and she crushed the paper up in her hand.
“How dare she write to me like that!
I don’t believe it.
I don’t believe a word of it!
She only wants to take him away from me as she is trying to take Alick Craven.”

Instantly she had come to a conclusion about Adela’s reason for writing that letter.
She remembered the strange episode in the _Bella Napoli_ on the previous evening--Adela’s extraordinary departure when Craven had come to speak to her and Arabian.
She had not seen Craven again.
There had been no explanation of that flight.
In this letter, between the lines, she read the explanation.
Adela must know Arabian, must have had something to do with him in the past.
They had, perhaps, even been lovers.
She did not know the age of Arabian, but she guessed that he was about thirty-five, perhaps even thirty-eight.
Adela was sixty now.
They might have been lovers when Arabian was quite young, perhaps almost a boy.
At that time Adela had been a brilliant and conquering beauty, middle-aged certainly, over forty, but still beautiful, still full of charm, still bent on conquest.
Miss Van Tuyn remembered the photograph of Adela which she had seen at Mrs. Ackroyde’s.
Yes, that was it.
Adela knew Arabian.
They had been lovers.
And now, out of jealousy, she had written this abominable letter.
But the girl read it again, and began to wonder.
It was strangely explicit, even for a letter of a jealous and spiteful woman.
It told her that Arabian was beyond the pale, that he ought to be in prison.
In prison!
That was going very far in attack.
To write that, unless it were true, was to write an atrocious libel.
But a jealous woman would do anything, risk anything to “get her own back.”

Nevertheless Miss Van Tuyn felt afraid.
This strange and terrible letter dovetailed with Dick Garstin’s warning, and both fitted in as it were with the underthings in her own mind, with those things which Garstin had summed up in one word “intuition.”

Arabian had taken her news about Garstin quite coolly.
“I will see about that myself,” he had said.
“But now--”

And then he had made passionate love to her.
There had been--she had noticed it all through her visit--a new pressure in his manner, a new and, as she now began to think, almost desperate authority in his whole demeanour.
His long reticence, the reserve which had puzzled and alarmed her, had given place to a frankness, a heat, which had almost swept her away.
She still tingled at the memory of what she had been through.
But now she began to think of it with a certain anxiety.
In spite of her anger against Adela her brain was beginning to work with some of its normal calmness.
Arabian had been very slow in advances.
But now was not he like a man in great haste, like a man who wished to bring something to a conclusion rapidly, if possible immediately?
Passion for her, perhaps, drove him on now that at last he had spoken, had held her in his arms.
But suppose he had another reason for haste?
He had seen Lady Sellingworth.
He knew that she was a friend of the girl he wanted to marry.
Miss Van Tuyn remembered that he had not welcomed her suggestion that the two couples, he and she, Lady Sellingworth and Craven, should have coffee together.
He had spoken of the smallness of the tables in the _Bella Napoli_.
But that might have been because he was jealous of Craven.
She read the letter a third time, very slowly and carefully.
Then she put it back into its envelope and rang the bell.
A waiter came.
“It’s about seven, isn’t it?” she said.
“Half past seven, madam.”

“Please bring me up some dinner at once--anything.
Bring me a sole and an omelette.
That will do.
But I want it as soon as possible.”

“Yes, madame.”

The waiter went out.
Then Miss Van Tuyn went to see old Fanny, and explained that she must dine alone that evening as she was in a hurry.
“I have to go to Berkeley Square directly after dinner to visit a friend, Lady Sellingworth.”

“Then I am to dine by myself, dear?” said Miss Cronin plaintively.
“Yes, you must dine alone.
Good night, Fanny.”

“Shan’t I see you when you come in?”

“I may be late.
Don’t bother about me.”

She went out and shut the door, leaving old Fanny distressed.
Something very serious was certainly happening.
Beryl looked quite unusual, so strung up, so excited.
What could be the matter?
If only they could get back to Paris!
There everything went so differently!
There Beryl was always in good spirits.
The London atmosphere seemed to hold poison.
Even Bourget’s spell was lessened in this city of darkness and strange inexplicable perturbations.
That night, about a quarter to nine when Lady Sellingworth had just finished her solitary dinner and gone up to the drawing-room, a footman came in and said:

“Will you see Miss Van Tuyn, my lady?
She has called and is in the hall.
She begs you to see her for a moment.”

Two spots of red appeared in Lady Sellingworth’s white cheeks.
For a moment she hesitated.
A feeling almost of horror had come to her, a longing for instant flight.
She had not expected this.
She did not know what exactly she had expected, but it had certainly not been this.
“Did you say I was in?” she said, at last.
The footman--a new man in the house--looked uncomfortable.
“I said your Ladyship was not out, but that I did not know whether your Ladyship was at home to anyone.”

After another pause Lady Sellingworth said:

“Please ask Miss Van Tuyn to come up.”

As she spoke she got up from her sofa.
She felt that she could not receive Beryl sitting, that she must stand to confront what was coming to her with the girl.
The footman went out and almost immediately returned.
“Miss Van Tuyn, my lady.”

“Do forgive me, Adela!” said Miss Van Tuyn, coming in with her usual graceful self-possession and looking, Lady Sellingworth thought in that first moment, quite untroubled.
“This is a most unorthodox hour.
But I knew you were often alone in the evening, and I thought perhaps you wouldn’t mind seeing me for a few minutes.”

She took Lady Sellingworth’s hand and started.
For the hand was cold.
Then she looked round and saw that the footman had left the room.
The big door was shut.
They were alone together.
“Of course you know why I’ve come, Adela,” she said.
“I’ve had your letter.”

As she spoke she drew it out of the muff she was carrying.
“I was obliged to write it,” said Lady Sellingworth.
“It was my duty to write it.”

“Yes?”

“But I don’t want to discuss it.”

They were both still standing.
Now Miss Van Tuyn said;

“Do you mind if I sit down?”

“No; do sit.”

“And may I take off my coat?”

Lady Sellingworth was obliged to say:

“Yes, do.”

Very composedly and rather slowly Miss Van Tuyn took off her fur coat, laid aside her muff, and sat down near the fire.
“I’m very sorry, Adela, but really, we must discuss this letter,” she said.
“I don’t understand it.”

“Surely it is explicit enough.”

“Yes.
It is too explicit not to be discussed between us.”

“Beryl, I don’t want to discuss it.
I can’t discuss it.”

“Why not?”

“Because it is too painful--a horrible subject.
You must take my word for it that I have written you the plain truth.”

“Please don’t think I doubt your word, Adela.”

“No, of course not.
And that being so let the matter end there.
It must end there.”

“But--where?
I don’t quite understand really.”

“I felt obliged to send you a warning, a very serious warning.
I greatly disliked, I hated doing it.
But I couldn’t do otherwise.
You are young--a girl.
I am an--I am almost an old woman.
We have been friends.
I saw you in danger.
What could I do but tell you of it?
I knew of course you were quite innocent in the matter.
I am putting no blame whatever on you.
You will do me that justice.”

“Oh, yes.”

“So there is nothing more to discuss.
I have done what I was bound to do, and I know you will heed my warning.”

She looked at the letter in Beryl’s hand, and remembered her feeling of danger when she wrote it.
“And now please burn that letter, Beryl.
Throw it into the fire.”

As she spoke she pointed to the fire on the hearth.
But Miss Van Tuyn kept the letter in her hand.
“Please wait a minute, Adela!” she said.
And a mutinous look came into her face.
“You don’t quite understand how things are.
It’s all very well to think you can make me give up my friend--any friend of mine--at a moment’s notice and at a word from you.
But I don’t see things quite in the same light.”

“That--that man isn’t your friend.
Don’t say that.”

“But I do say it,” said the girl, with a now intense obstinacy.
“You met him in Mr. Garstin’s studio, didn’t you?”

“Perhaps I did.
There is nothing against him in that.”

“I do not say there is.
But I do say you know nothing about him.”

“But how do you know that?
You assume a great deal, Adela.”

“Do you know anything about him?”

“Suppose I were to ask you questions in my turn?”

“Questions?
But I have told you--”

“Yes, you have told me certain things, but you have explained nothing.
You seem to expect everything from me.
Am I not to expect anything from you?”

“Anything!
But what?”

“An explanation, surely.”

Lady Sellingworth was silent.
She was still standing.
The two spots of red still glowed in her white face.
Her eyes looked like the eyes of one who was in dread.
They had lost their usual expression of self-command, and resembled the eyes of a creature being hunted.
Miss Van Tuyn saw that and wondered.
A fierce animosity woke in her and made her more obstinate, more determined to get at the truth of this mystery.
She would not leave this house until light was given to her.
She had a strong will.
It was now fully roused, and she was ready to pit it against Adela’s will.
And she had another weapon in her armoury.
She was now very angry, with an anger which she did not fully understand, and which was made up of several elements.
One of these elements was certainly passion.
This anger rendered her merciless.
“Well, Adela?” she said at length, as Lady Sellingworth did not speak.
“What is it you want, Beryl?” said Lady Sellingworth, looking into her eyes and then quickly away.
“But I have told you--an explanation.”

She unfolded the letter slowly.
“I can’t give you one.
I have told you the truth, and I ask you to accept it, and I beg, I implore you to act upon it.”

“Suppose I were to make a violent attack on one of your friends, on Mr. Craven for instance?”

“Please don’t bracket Mr. Craven and that man together!” said Lady Sellingworth sharply.
Beryl Van Tuyn flushed with anger.
“But I do!” she said.
“I choose to do that for the sake of argument.”

“Two such men have nothing in common, nothing!
One is a gentleman, the other is a blackguard!”

Miss Van Tuyn thought of the previous evening, when Lady Sellingworth had dined with Craven while she had dined with Arabian, and she was stung to the quick.
“I cannot allow you to speak like this of a friend of mine without an explanation,” she said bitterly.
“And now”--she spoke more hurriedly, as if fearing to be interrupted--“I will finish what I was going to say, if you will allow me.
Suppose I were to make an attack on, say, Mr. Craven, to tell you that I happened to know he was thoroughly bad, immoral, a liar, anything you like.
Do you mean to say you would give him up at once without insisting on knowing from me my exact reasons for branding him as unfit for your company?
Of course you wouldn’t.
And not only you!
No one would do such a thing who had any courage or any will in them.”

She lifted the letter.
“In this letter you say that Mr. Arabian is unfit to be the companion of any decent woman, that he is a blackguard in the full acceptance of the word, that he is beyond the pale, and finally, that he ought to be in prison.
Very well!
I don’t say for a moment that I doubt your word, but I do ask you to justify it.
Of course I know that you easily can.
Otherwise I am sure that you would never have written such awful accusations against anyone.
It would be too wicked, and I know you are not wicked.
Please tell me your exact reason for writing this letter, Adela.”

“I can’t.”

“You really mean that?”

“I won’t.
It’s impossible.”

Miss Van Tuyn’s face became very hard.
“Well, then, Adela--”

She paused.
Suddenly there had come into her mind the thought of a possible way of forcing the confidence which Lady Sellingworth refused to give her.
Should she take it?
She hesitated.
Arabian’s will was upon her even here in this quiet drawing-room.
His large eyes seemed fixed upon her.
She still felt the long and soft touch of his lips clinging to hers like the lips of a thirsty man.
Would he wish her to take this way?
For a moment she felt afraid of him.
But then her strong independence of an American girl rose up to combat this imaginative, almost occult, domination.
Arabian himself, his fate perhaps, was concerned in this matter.
She could not, she would not allow even Arabian, whose will imposed itself on hers, who had gathered her strangely, mysteriously, into a grip which she felt almost like a thing palpable upon her, to prevent her from finding out the truth which Lady Sellingworth seemed resolved to keep from her.
She still believed, indeed she felt practically certain, that Lady Sellingworth and Arabian in the past had been lovers.
Her jealousy was furiously awake.
She felt reckless of consequences and ready to take any course which would bring to her what she needed, full knowledge of what had led Adela Sellingworth to send her that letter.
Lady Sellingworth was looking at her now steadily, with, she thought, a sort of almost fierce pleading.
But she cared very little for Adela’s feelings just then.
“You really refuse to tell me?”

“I must, Beryl.”

“I don’t think that’s fair.
It isn’t fair to me or to him.”

“I can’t help that.
Please don’t ask me anything more.
And please destroy that letter.
Or let me destroy it.”

She held out her hand, but Miss Van Tuyn sat quite still.
“I must tell you something,” she said.
“If you will not explain to me I think I ought to go for an explanation to someone else.”

“Someone else!” said Lady Sellingworth in a startled voice.
“But--do you know--to whom would you go?”

“I think I ought to go to him, to the man you accuse of nameless things.”

“But you can’t do that!”

“Why not?
It would only be fair.”

“But what reason could you give?”

“Naturally I should have to say that you had warned me against him.”

“No--no, you mustn’t do that.”

“Really?
I am to be bound hand and foot while you--”

“You saw what I wrote in that letter.”

“Yes, of course.
Naturally I will not show it.
But I shall have to say that you warned me to drop him.”

“I can’t have my name mentioned to that man,” said Lady Sellingworth desperately.
“And I can’t drop him without telling him why.”

“Beryl, you haven’t read to the end of my letter.”

“But I have!”

“Then have you forgotten it?
Look!
I wrote in it that I don’t think he will ask for your reason if you refuse to see him again.”

“That only proves how little you know about him.
I shall not do it, Adela.
You are not very frank with me, but I am sincere with you.
Either you must give me an explanation of your reason for writing this letter, or you must give me permission to tell Mr. Arabian of your warning, or--if you won’t do either the one or the other--I shall take no action because of this letter.
I shall behave as if I had never received it and read it.”

“Beryl!
What reason could I have for writing as I have written if I had nothing against this man?”

“I don’t know.
It is very difficult to understand the reasons women have for doing what they do.
But I have come here to ask you what your reason is.
That’s why I am here now.”

“Could I have a bad reason, a selfish reason?”

“How can I tell?”

“Then have you a bad opinion of me, of my character?”

“I have always admired you very much.
You know that.”

“Once--once you called me a book of wisdom.”

“Did I?”

“Don’t you remember?”

“I dare say I did.”

“And I think you meant of worldly wisdom.
Then can’t you, won’t you, trust my opinion of this man?”

“Oh if it’s only your opinion!”

“But it is not.
It is knowledge.”

“Then you know Mr. Arabian?”

“I didn’t say that.”

“Do you know him?”

Lady Sellingworth turned away for a moment.
She stood with her back to Miss Van Tuyn and her face towards the fire, holding the mantelpiece with her right hand.
Miss Van Tuyn, motionless, stared at her tall figure.
She felt this was a real battle between herself and her friend, or enemy.
She was determined to win it somehow.
She still had a weapon in reserve, the weapon she had thought of just now when she had resolutely put away her fear of Arabian.
But perhaps she would not be forced to use it, perhaps she could overcome Adela’s extraordinary resistance without it.
As she looked at the woman turned from her she began to think that might be possible.
Adela was surely weakening.
This pause, this sudden moving away, this long hesitation suggested weakness.
At last Lady Sellingworth turned round.
“You ask me whether I know that man.”

“I asked you whether you knew _Mr.
Arabian_!” said Miss Van Tuyn, on a note of acute exasperation.
“I don’t know him.”

“That is a lie!” said Miss Van Tuyn to herself.
To Lady Sellingworth she said:

“Then if you don’t know Mr. Arabian you are only repeating hearsay.”

“No!”

“But you must be!”

“I am not.”

“Adela, you are incomprehensible, or else I must be densely stupid.
One or the other!”

“One may know things about a man’s character and life without being personally acquainted with him.”

“Then it’s hearsay.
I am not going to drop Mr. Arabian because of hearsay, more especially when I don’t even know what the hearsay is.”

“It is not hearsay.”

“It doesn’t come from other people?”

“No.”

“Then”--a sudden thought struck her--“is it from the newspapers?
Has he ever been in some case, some scandal, that’s been in the newspapers?”

“Not that I know of.
It isn’t that.”

“Really this is like the ‘Mysteries of Udolpho,’” said Miss van Tuyn, concealing her anger and her burning curiosity under a pretence of petulance.
“And I really can’t take it seriously.”

“But you must, Beryl.
You must!”

Lady Sellingworth came to her quickly and sat down beside her.
“I know my conduct must seem very strange.”

“It does, indeed!”

“And I dare say all sorts of suspicions, ugly suspicions perhaps, have come into your mind.
But try to put them away.
Try to believe that I am honestly doing my best to be a friend to you, a true friend.”

“Forgive me, Adela, for being brutally frank with you.
But I don’t think you care very much for me.”

“I wrote that letter against my own desire simply because I thought I ought to.
I wrote it simply for your sake.
I would have given a great deal not to write it.
I knew that there was even danger in writing it.”

“What danger?”

“It was possible that you might disregard my request and show my letter.
I felt practically certain you wouldn’t, but you might have done so.”

“And if I had?”

“If you had--then--but I only tell you this to prove that in this instance I was trying to be a friend to you.”

“If I had shown this letter, or if I were to show it to Mr. Arabian he might bring an action for libel on it, I should think.”

“I dare say he could do that.”

“Well--but if you could justify!”

“But I couldn’t!”

“You couldn’t!
You write me a libel about a friend of mine which you yourself say you couldn’t justify!”

“I can’t bear to hear you speak of that man as your friend.”

“He is my friend.
I like him very much indeed.
And I know him, have known him for weeks, while you tell me you don’t know him.
I shall venture to set my knowledge, my personal knowledge, against your ignorance, Adela, and to go on with my friendship.
But you need not be afraid.” She smiled contemptuously.
“I will not show Mr. Arabian this cruel letter which you yourself say you couldn’t justify.”

As she spoke she returned the letter to her muff, which was lying on a table beside her.
“Well,” she added, “I don’t know that there is anything more I need say.
I came here to have it out with you.
That is my way, perhaps an American way, of doing things.
We don’t care for underhand dealings.
We like things fair and square.”

She got up.
“You have your way of doing things and we have ours!
I’ll tell you what mine would have been, Adela, if the situation had been reversed.
I should not have written at all.
I should have come to see you, and if I had had some grave, hideous charge to make I should have made it, and fully explained my reasons for making it to you.
I should have put you in the same state of complete knowledge as I was in.
That is my idea of friendship and fair dealing.
But you think otherwise.
So what is the good of our arguing any more about the matter?”

Lady Sellingworth was still sitting.
For a moment she did not move, but remained where she was looking up at the girl.
Just then she was assailed by a fierce temptation.
After all, had not she done her part?
Had not she done all that anyone could expect from her, from any woman under the existing circumstances?
Had not she done even much more than many women could have brought themselves to do?
Beryl had not been very kind to her.
Beryl was really the enemy of her happiness, of her poor little attempt after happiness.
And yet she had taken a risk in order to try and save Beryl from danger.
And the girl would not be saved.
Headstrong, wilful, embittered, she refused to be saved.
Then why not let her go?
She had been warned.
She chose to defy the warning.
That was not Lady Sellingworth’s fault.
“I’ve done enough!
I’ve done all I can do.”

She said this to herself as she sat and looked at the girl.
“I can’t do any more!”

Miss Van Tuyn reached out for her coat and began very deliberately to put it on.
Then she picked up the muff in which the letter lay hidden.
“Well, good night, Adela!”

Lady Sellingworth got up slowly.
“I promise that I will not show your letter.
So don’t be afraid.”

“I’m not afraid.”

Miss Van Tuyn held out her hand.
“No doubt you have your reasons for doing what you have done.
I don’t pretend to understand them.
And I don’t understand you.
But women are often incomprehensible to me.
Perhaps that is why I usually prefer men.
They don’t plunge you in subtleties.
They let you understand things.”

“Ah!” exclaimed Lady Sellingworth.
And there was a passion of acute irony in the exclamation.
“What’s the matter?” said Miss Van Tuyn, looking surprised, almost startled.
But Lady Sellingworth did not tell her.
“If you will go like this, Beryl--go!” she said.
“I cannot force you to do, or not to do, anything.
But”--she laid a hand on the girl’s arm and pressed it till her hand almost hurt Beryl--“but I tell you that you are in danger, in great danger.
I dread to think of what may be in store for you.”

Something in the grasp of her hand, in her manner, in her eyes, impressed Miss Van Tuyn in spite of herself.
Again fear, a fear mysterious and cold, crept in her.
Garstin had warned her in his way.
Now Adela was warning her.
And she remembered that other warning whispered by something within herself.
She stood still looking into Lady Sellingworth’s eyes.
Then she looked down.
She seemed to be considering something.
At last she looked up again and said:

“You said to me to-night that you did not know Mr. Arabian--now.”

“I don’t know him.”

“But have you known him?
Did you know him long ago?”

“I have never known him.”

“Then I don’t understand.
And--and I will not act in ignorance.
It isn’t fair to expect me to do that.”

“I have done all that I can do,” said Lady Sellingworth, with a sort of despair, taking her hand from the girl’s arm.
“Very well.”

Beryl moved and went slowly towards the door.
Lady Sellingworth stood looking after her.
She thought the hideous interview was over.
But she did not know Beryl even yet, did not realize even yet the passionate force of curiosity which possessed Beryl at this moment.
When the girl was not far from the door, and when Lady Sellingworth was reaching out her hand to touch the bell in order that the footman might know that her visitor was leaving her, Beryl turned round.
“Adela!” she said.
“Yes.
What is it?”

“Perhaps you think that I have been very persistent to-night, that I have almost cross-examined you.”

“I don’t blame you.
It is natural that you wished to know more.”

“Yes, it is natural, because Mr. Arabian wants me to marry him.”

“To marry him!”

Lady Sellingworth started forward impulsively.
“Marry?
He wants--you--you--”

“He loves me.
He has asked me to marry him.”

She turned away, and went to the door and opened it.
“Beryl, come here!”

“Why?”

“Beryl!”

“But what is the good?
You refuse to tell me anything, I tell you everything.
Now you understand why I feel angry at these horrible accusations.”

“You don’t mean to tell me you have ever dreamed of marrying such a man!”

“Don’t abuse him!
I don’t wish to hear him abused.
I hate it.
I won’t have it.”

“But--Beryl!
But only a few days ago you as good as told me you cared for Alick Craven.
You--you gave me to understand that you liked him very much, that you--”

“Oh, this is intolerable!” said Miss Van Tuyn.
“Really!
Why do you interfere in my life like this?
What have I done to set you against me?
You talk of being my friend, but you do everything you can to upset my happiness.
It is enough that I like anyone for you to try to come between us.
First it was Alick Craven!
Now it is Mr. Arabian!
It is unbearable.
You have had your life.
You have had a splendid life, everything any woman could wish to have.
I am a girl.
I am only beginning.
Why can’t you leave me alone?
Why can’t you let me have some happiness without thrusting yourself in and trying to spoil everything for me?
Won’t you ever have had enough?
Ever since I have known Mr. Craven you have tried to get him away from me.
And now you are doing your best to make me give up a man who loves me and wants to marry me.”

“Beryl!
Please!”

“No, I will not bear it.
I will not!
I admired you.
I had a cult for you.
Everyone knew it.
I went about praising you, telling everyone you were the most wonderful woman I had ever known.
You can ask anybody.
People used to laugh at me about my infatuation for you.
I stood up for you always.
They told me--but I wouldn’t believe!”

“What did they tell you?”

“Never mind.
But now I begin to believe it is true.
You can’t bear to see other women happy.
That’s what it is.”

“Beryl, it isn’t that!
No, it isn’t that!”

“You have had it all.
But that doesn’t satisfy you.
You want to prevent other women from having any of the happiness that you can’t have now.
It is cruel.
I never thought you were like that.
I took you as a pattern of what a woman of your age should be.
I looked up to you.
I would have come to you for counsel, for advice.
You were my book of wisdom.
I thought you were far above all the pettinesses that disfigure other women, the women who hate us girls, who want to snatch everything from us.
And now you are trying to do me more harm than any other woman has ever tried to do me!”

“I--I will prove to you that it isn’t so!” said Lady Sellingworth.
“Please shut the door.”

Miss Van Tuyn obeyed.
“But--but--first tell me something.”

“What?”

“Tell me the absolute truth.”

“I am not a liar, Adela.”

“But sometimes--truth is difficult sometimes.”

“What is it you want to know?”

“Do you care for this--do you care for Mr. Arabian?”

“Perhaps I do.”

“Do you?”

“Yes.”

“Do you mean that you are really thinking of doing what he wishes you to do?”

“I haven’t told him yet.”

“But you are thinking of marrying him?”

“I know nothing against him.
He cares for me very much.”

Lady Sellingworth was silent.
“Perhaps you don’t believe that?
Perhaps you think that’s impossible?”

“Oh, no!
But--”

“I know exactly what you are thinking.
You are thinking that I am rich now that my father is dead.
But he is rich too.
He does not need my money.
He has never done any work.
He has been an idler all his life.
He has often told me that he has had too much money and that it has done him harm, made him an idler.”

“And you believe all that?”

“I believe that he cares for me very much.
I know he does.”

“Once I thought that man--”

She stopped.
“Promise me one thing,” she said at last in a different voice.
“Promise me that you will not marry Mr. Arabian.
I won’t ask anything else of you; only that.”

“But I won’t promise.
I can’t.”

“Why not?”

“Because--because I don’t know what I am going to do, what I might do.”  She looked down, then added in a low voice; “He fascinates me.”

For the first time since she had come into the room there was a helpless sound in Miss Van Tuyn’s voice, a sound that was wholly girlish, absolutely, transparently sincere.
Lady Sellingworth did not miss it.
“I haven’t made up my mind,” she said.
“But he fascinates me.”

And at that moment Lady Sellingworth knew she was speaking the truth.
She remembered her own madnesses, sunk away in the past, but still present to her, gripped between the tentacles of memory.
Beryl, too, was then capable of the great follies which often exist side by side with great vanity.
The wild heart confronted Lady Sellingworth in another.
And she felt suddenly a deep sense of pity, a sense that seemed flooded with tears, the pity that age sometimes feels for youth coming on into life, on into the devious ways, with their ambushes, their traps, their pitfalls full of darkness and fear.
She was even conscious of a tenderness of age which till now had been a rare visitor in her difficult nature.
Seymour Portman seemed near her, almost with her in the room.
She could almost hear his voice speaking of spring with all its daffodils.
Noblesse oblige.
In her torn heart could she find a nobleness sufficient for this occasion?
Seymour’s eyes, the terrible eyes of affection, which require so much and which sometimes, because of that, seem to be endowed with creative power, forcing into life that which they long to see, were surely upon her, watching for her nobility, asking for it, demanding it of her.
She took Beryl Van Tuyn by the wrist and led her away from the shut door back to the fire.
“Sit down, Beryl,” she said.
The girl looked at her wondering, feeling a great change in her and not understanding it.
“Why?” she said.
“I have something I must say to you.”

Beryl dropped her muff and sat down.
Lady Sellingworth stood near her.
“Beryl,” she said, “you think I have been and am your enemy.
I must show you I am not.
And there’s only one way.
You say I can’t bear to see you happy.
I don’t think that’s true.
I hope it isn’t.
I don’t think I wish unhappiness to others, but, even at my age, I still wish to have a little happiness myself.
There’s never a time in one’s life, I suppose, when one doesn’t long to be happy.
But I don’t want to interfere with your happiness, I only want to interfere between you and a very great danger, something which would certainly bring disaster into your life.”

She stopped speaking.
She was looking grave, indeed almost tragically sad, but calm and resolute.
The spots of red had faded out of her cheeks.
There was no fever in her manner.
Miss Van Tuyn’s wonder grew as she looked at her former friend, who now dominated her, and began to extort from her a strange and unwilling admiration, which recalled to her the admiration of that past time when she had first met Alick Craven in this drawing-room.
After a long pause Lady Sellingworth continued, with a sort of strong simplicity in which there was moral power:

“Don’t be angry with me, Beryl, when I tell you that you have one of my dominant characteristics.”

“What is it?” Miss Van Tuyn asked, in a low voice.
“Vanity.
You and I--we were both born with great vanity in us.
Mine has troubled me, tortured me, been a curse to me, all my life.
It led me at last into a very horrible situation, in which the--that man who calls himself Nicolas Arabian was mixed up.”

“But you said you didn’t know him, that you had never known him!”

“That’s quite true.
I have never spoken to him in my life.
But it was he who led me to change my life.
You must have heard of it.
You must have heard how, ten years ago, I suddenly gave up everything and began to lead a life of retirement.”

“Yes.”

“But for that man I should probably never have done that.
But for him I might have been going about London now with dyed hair, pretending to be ten or fifteen years younger than I really am.”

“But--if you never knew him?
I can’t understand!”

“Did you ever hear that about ten years ago I lost a great quantity of jewels, that they were stolen out of a train at the Gare du Nord in Paris?”

A look of fear, almost of horror, came into Beryl Van Tuyn’s eyes.
She got up from the sofa on which she was sitting.
“Adela!”

Already she knew what was coming, what Lady Sellingworth was going to tell her.
She even knew the very words Lady Sellingworth was about to say, and when she heard them it was as if she herself had spoken them.
“That man stole them.”

“Adela!”

“You said that he had money, that he was not obliged to work.
Now you know why he has money and what his work is.”

“Adela!
But--but why didn’t you--”

Her voice faded away.
“I couldn’t.
My hands were tied.”

“How?”

“He caught me in a trap.
He laid a bait for my vanity, Beryl, and I took the bait.
“But what was it?”

“He made me believe that he had fallen in love with me.
I was a woman of fifty and he made me believe that!
That is how vanity leads us!”

And then she told the girl all the truth about Arabian and herself, all the truth of ten years ago.
Having made up her mind, having begun to do what Seymour would have called “the right thing,” she did not hesitate, did not spare herself.
She went on to the bitter end.
But the strange, the wonderful thing was that it was less bitter than she had thought it must be.
While she was speaking, while she was exposing her own folly, her own shame even, she began to feel a sense of relief.
She gave the secret which she had kept for ten years to this girl who had treated her cruelly, and in the giving, instead of abject humiliation, she was conscious of liberation.
Her mind seemed to be released from a long bondage.
Her soul seemed to breathe more freely, like a live thing let out from a close prison into the air.
A strange feeling of being at peace with herself came to her and comforted her.
“And that is all, Beryl!” she said at last.
“Now, do you forgive me?”

Beryl had been standing quite still, with her eyes fixed on Lady Sellingworth.
She had listened without moving.
Even her hands had been still, folded together in front of her.
But the colour had come and gone in her face as she had listened, as it can only come and go in a face that is young.
She was very pale now.
Even her lips looked much paler than usual.
She stood there and did not say anything.
But her eyes were no longer fastened on Lady Sellingworth’s face.
She was looking down now.
Lady Sellingworth could not see her eyes, but only her white eyelids fringed with long lashes which curled up at the ends.
“I had to tell you, Beryl.”

Still the girl said nothing and did not move.
But Lady Sellingworth saw two tears come from under her eyelids and fall down her face.
Other tears followed.
She did not take out her handkerchief to wipe them away.
She did not seem to be aware of them, or of any necessity for trying to stop them from coming.
And then she began to shake.
She shook from head to foot, still keeping her hands folded.
And that--the folded hands--made her look like a tall doll shaking.
There was something so peculiar and horrible in the contrast between her attitude and the evident agony which was convulsing her that for a moment Lady Sellingworth felt helpless, did not dare to speak to her or to touch her.
It was impossible to tell whether she was shaken by anger, by self-pity, or by the despair of youth deceived and outraged.
But as she continued to weep, and as her body went on trembling, Lady Sellingworth at last could not bear it any longer.
She felt that she must do something, must try to help her, and she put a hand on the girl’s shoulder gently.
“Beryl!” she said.
“Beryl!
I didn’t want to hurt you, but I had to tell you.”

The girl suddenly turned and caught her by the arms.
“Oh, Adela!” she said, in a faltering voice.
“No other woman would have--how could you?
Oh, how could you?”

Her face was distorted.
She looked at Lady Sellingworth with eyes that were bloodshot behind their tears.
“Both of us!
Both of us!” she exclaimed.
“It’s too horrible!”

She still held Lady Sellingworth’s arms.
“_I_ couldn’t have done it!
I should have let you go on.
I shouldn’t have written--I shouldn’t have spoken!
And I have been alone with him.
I have let him--I have let him--”

“Beryl!”

“No, no!
It isn’t too late!
Don’t be afraid!”

“Thank God!” said Lady Sellingworth.
She had no feeling of self-pity now.
All her compassion for herself was obscured for the moment in compassion for the girl.
The years at last were helping her, those years which so often had brought her misery.
“But what am I to do?
I’m afraid of him.
Oh, do help me.”

“Hush, Beryl!
What can he do?
There’s nothing to be afraid of.”

“But I’ve nobody.
I’m all alone.
Fanny is no use.
And he means--he won’t give it up.
I know he won’t give it up.
I was always afraid in a way.
I always had suspicions, but I trampled them down.
Dick Garstin told me, but I would not listen.
Dick Garstin showed me what he was.”

“How could he?”

“He did.
It’s there in the studio--that horrible picture, the real man, the man I couldn’t see.
But I must always have known what he was.
Something in me must always have known!”

She seemed to make a violent effort to recover her self-control.
She dropped her hands, took out a handkerchief and wiped the tears from her eyes.
Then she went to the sofa where her muff was lying, drew out the letter that was in it, went over to the fireplace and threw the letter into the flames.
“Adela,” she said, “I’ve been a beast to you.
You know--my last visit to you.
You’re brave.
I suppose I always felt there was something fine in you, but I didn’t know how fine you could be.
All I can do in return is this--never to tell.
It isn’t much, is it?”

“It’s quite enough, Beryl.”

“There isn’t anything else I can do, is there?”

Her eyes were asking a question.
Lady Sellingworth met them calmly, earnestly.
She knew what the girl was thinking at that moment.
She was thinking of Alick Craven.
“No, there isn’t anything else.”

“Are you quite sure, Adela?
I owe you a great deal.
I may forget it.
One never knows.
And I suppose I’m horribly selfish.
But if I make you a promise now I’ll keep it.
If you want me to promise anything, tell me now.”

“But I don’t want anything from you,” said Lady Sellingworth.
She said it very quietly, without emotion.
There was even a coldness in her voice.
The great effort she had just made seemed to have changed her.
By making it she felt as if, unwittingly, she had built up an insurmountable barrier between herself and youth.
She had not known, perhaps, what she was doing, but now, suddenly, she knew.
_I grow too old a comrade, let us part.
Pass thou away!_

The words ran in her mind.
How often she had thought of them!
How often she had struggled with that wild heart which God had given her, which in a way she clung to desperately, and yet which, as she had long known, she ought to give up.
She was too old a comrade for that wild heart, and now surely she was saying farewell to it--this time a final farewell.
But she had felt, had really felt as if in her very entrails, for a moment the appeal of youth.
And she could never forget that, and, having responded, she knew that she could never struggle against youth again.
Beryl had conquered her without knowing it.
CHAPTER VII

The winter night was dark when Miss Van Tuyn stood in the hall of Lady Sellingworth’s house waiting for the footman to find a taxicab for her.
A big fire was burning on the hearth; the old-fashioned hooded chair stood beside it; and presently, as no taxicab came, she went to the chair and sat down in it.
She felt very tired.
Her whole body seemed to have been weakened by what she had just been through.
But her mind was charged with intense vitality.
The thoughts galloped through it, and they were dark as the night.
The cold air of winter stole in through the doorway of the hall.
She felt it and shivered as she lay back in the great chair which, with its walls and roof, was like a hiding-place; and for the first time in her life she longed to hide herself.
She had never before known acute fear--fear that was based on ascertained facts.
But she knew it now.
The young footman stood on the doorstep bareheaded, looking this way and that into the blackness, and she sat waiting.
In her independence she had never before known what it was to feel abandoned to loneliness.
She had always enjoyed her freedom.
Now she felt a great longing to cling to someone, to be protected, to lean on somebody who was much stronger than herself, and who would defend her against any attack.
At that moment she envied Lady Sellingworth safe above stairs in this silent and beautiful house, which was like a stronghold.
She even envied, or thought she did, Lady Sellingworth for her years.
In old age there was surely a security that youth could never have.
For the riot of life was over and the greatest dangers were past.
She longed to stay with Adela that night.
She thought of her as security.
But she dared not expect anything more from Adela.
She had already received a gift which she had surely not deserved, a gift which few women, if indeed any other woman, would have given her.
She looked towards the open door and saw the footman’s flat back, and narrow head covered with carefully plastered hair.
He was calling now with both hands to his mouth: “Taxi!
Taxi!”

But there came no sound of wheels in the night, and she put her hands on the sides of the chair and got up.
“Can’t you find a cab?”

“No, ma’am.
I’ve very sorry, but there doesn’t seem to be one about.
Shall I go to the nearest cab rank?”

Miss Van Tuyn hesitated.
Then she determined to fight her fear.
“It isn’t raining, is it?”

“No, ma’am.”

“Then I’ll walk.
It’s not far.
I shall pick up a cab on the way probably.”

The young man looked relieved and stood aside to let her go out.
He watched her as she walked down the square towards the block of flats which towered up where the pavement turned at right angles.
The light from the hall shone out and made a patch of yellow about his feet.
He noticed presently that the girl he was watching turned her head and looked back, almost as if she were hesitating.
Then she walked on resolutely, and he stepped in and shut the door.
“Wonder if she’s afraid of going like that all by herself!” he thought.
“I only wish she was my class.
I wouldn’t mind seeing her home.”

Just before she was out of sight of Lady Sellingworth’s house Miss Van Tuyn looked back again.
The light was gone.
She knew that the door was shut and she shivered.
She felt shut out.
What was she going to do?
She was going back to Claridge’s of course.
But--after that?
She longed to take counsel with someone, with someone who was strong and clear brained, and who really cared for her.
But who did care for her?
Perhaps for the first time in her life she was the victim of sentimentality, of what she would have thought of certainly as sentimentality in another.
A sort of yearning for affection came to her.
A wave of self-pity swept over her.
Her independence of spirit was in abeyance or dead.
Arabian, it seemed, had struck her down to the ground.
She felt humiliated, terrified, and strangely, horribly young, like a child almost who had been cruelly treated.
She thought of her dead father.
If he had been alive and near could she have gone to him?
No; for years he had not cared very much about her.
He had been kind, had given her plenty of money, but he had been immersed in pleasures and had always been in the hands of some woman or other.
He had not really loved her.
No one, she thought with desperation, had ever really loved her.
She did not ask herself whether that was her fault, whether she had ever given to anyone what she wanted so terribly now, whether she had any right to expect generosity of feeling when she herself was niggardly.
She was stricken in her vanity and, because of that, she had come down to the dust.
It was frightful to her to think, to be obliged to think, that Arabian all this time had looked upon her as a prey, had marked her down as a prey.
She understood everything now, his fixed gaze at her in the Cafe Royal when she had seen him for the first time, his coming to Garstin’s studio, his subtle acting through the early days of their acquaintance.
She understood his careful self-repression, his reticence, his evident reluctance to be painted, overcome no doubt by two desires--the desire to become intimate with her, and the desire to possess eventually a piece of work that would be worth a great deal of money.
She understood the determination not to allow his portrait to be exhibited.
She understood the look in his face when she had told him of her father’s sudden death, the change in his demeanour to her since he had known the fact, the desire to hurry things on, to sweep her off her feet.
She understood--ah, how she understood!--why he had not wished Adela to join them in the restaurant!
She remembered a hundred things about him now, all mixed up together, in no coherent order, little things at which she had wondered but which she wondered at no longer; his distaste for Garstin’s portraits because they were of people belonging to the underworld, his understanding of them, his calm contemplation of the victims of vice, his lack of all pity for them, his shrewd verdict on the judge which had so delighted Garstin.
And how he had waited for her, how he had known how to wait!
It was frightful--that deliberation of his!
Garstin had been right about him.
Garstin’s instinct for people had not betrayed him.
Although later Arabian’s craft had puzzled even him he had summed up Arabian at a first glance.
Garstin was diabolically clever.
If only he were less hard, less brutally cynical, she might perhaps go to him now.
For he had in his peculiar way warned her against Arabian.
She flushed in the dark as she thought of Garstin’s probable comments on her situation if he knew of it!
And yet Garstin had told her that Arabian was in love with her.
Was that possible?
Her vanity faintly stirred like something, albeit feebly, reviving.
Arabian had marked her down as a prey.
She had no doubt about that.
Her brain refused to doubt it.
But perhaps, mingled with his hideous cupidity of the accomplished adventurer, the professional thief, there was something else, the lust, or even the sensual love, of the primitive man.
Perhaps--she realized the possibility--he believed he had found in her the great opportunity of his life, the unique chance of combining the satisfaction of his predatory instincts with the satisfaction of his intimate personal desires, those desires which he shared with the men who lived far from the underworld.
If that were so--and suddenly she felt that it was so, that she had hit upon the truth--then she was surely in great danger.
For Arabian was not the man to let an unique opportunity slip through his fingers without putting up a tremendous fight.
She must find someone to help her against this man.
Again she thought of Garstin.
But he had his own battle to fight, the battle about the portrait.
Then she thought of Craven.
Obscurely long ago--it seemed at least long ago--she had felt that she might some day need Craven in her life.
How strange that was!
What mysterious instinct had warned her then?
But now Craven was hostile to her.
How could she go to him?
And then there flashed upon her the thought:

“But I can’t go to anybody!
I have promised Adela.”

That thought struck her like a blow, struck her so hard that she stood still on the pavement.
And she realized immediately that either she must do without any help at all, or that, in spite of all that had happened, she must ask Adela to help her.
For she could never break her promise to Adela.
She knew that.
She knew that she would rather go under than betray Adela’s confidence.
Adela had done a fine thing, something that she, Beryl, had not believed it was in any woman to do.
She could not have done it, but on the other hand she could not be vile.
It was not in her to be vile.
She heard a step in the darkness and realized what she was doing.
Instantly she hurried on, almost running.
She must gain shelter, must be in the midst of light, must be between four walls, must speak to someone who knew her, and who would not do her harm.
Claridge’s--old Fanny!
A few minutes later she entered the hotel almost breathless.
CHAPTER VIII

On the following afternoon Craven called on Lady Sellingworth about five o’clock and was told by the new footman in a rather determined manner that she was “not at home.”

“I hope her ladyship is quite well?” he said.
“I believe so, sir,” replied the man.
“Her ladyship has been out driving to-day.”

“Please give her that card.
Wait one moment.”

He pencilled on the card, “I hope you are better,--A.C.,” gave it to the man, and walked away, feeling sure that Lady Sellingworth was in the house but did not choose to see him.
In the evening he received the following note from her:

18A, BERKELEY SQUARE,

Thursday.
DEAR MR. CRAVEN,--How kind of you to call and to write that little message.
I am sorry I could not see you.
I’m not at all ill, and have been out driving.
But, between you and me--for I hate to make a fuss about trifling matters of health--I feel rather played out.
Perhaps it’s partly old age!
You know nothing about that.
Any variation in my quiet life seems to act as a disturbing influence.
And the restaurant the other night really was terribly hot.
I mustn’t go there again, though it is great fun.
I suppose you didn’t see Beryl?
She has been to see me, but said nothing about it.
Be nice to her.
I don’t think she has many real friends in London.--Yours very sincerely,

ADELA SELLINGWORTH.
“What is it?
What has happened?” Craven thought, as he put down the letter.
He felt that some drama had been played out, or partially played out, within the last days which he did not understand, which he was not allowed to understand.
Lady Sellingworth chose to keep him in the dark.
Well, she had the right to do that.
As he thought over things he realized that the heat in the restaurant could certainly not have been the sole reason of her strange conduct on the night when they had dined together.
Something had upset her mentally.
A physical reason only could not account for her behaviour.
And again he thought of Arabian.
Instinctively he hated the man.
Who was he?
Where did he come from?
Craven could not place him.
Beyond feeling sure that he was a “wrong ‘un” Craven had no very definite opinion about him.
He was well dressed, good looking--too good looking--and no doubt knew how to behave.
He might even possibly be a gentleman of sorts, come to England from some exotic land where the breed of gentleman was quite different from that which prevailed in England.
But he was surely a beast.
Craven detested his good looks, loathed his large and lustrous brown eyes.
He was the sort of beast who did nothing but make up to women.
Something inherently clean in Craven rejected the fellow, wished to drive him into outer darkness.
Could Lady Sellingworth know such a man?
That seemed quite impossible.
Nevertheless, certain things persistently suggested to Craven that at least she had some knowledge of Arabian which she was deliberately concealing from him.
The most salient of these things was her reiterated attempt to push him into the company of Beryl Van Tuyn.
It was impossible not to think that Lady Sellingworth wished him to interfere between Beryl Van Tuyn and Arabian.
On the night of the dinner in Soho she had attempted to persuade him to go back to the restaurant and to see Beryl home.
And now here in this letter she returned to the matter.
“Be nice to her.
I don’t think she has many real friends in London.”

“Go to see Beryl; don’t come to see me.”

Between the lines of Lady Sellingworth’s letter Craven read those words and wondered at the ways of women.
But he did not mean to obey the unwritten command.
And he felt angry with Lady Sellingworth for giving it by implication.
She might have what she considered a good reason for her extraordinary behaviour.
But as she did not allow him to understand it, as she chose to keep him entirely in the dark, he would be passive.
It was not his business to run after Beryl Van Tuyn, to interfere almost forcibly between her and another man, even if that man were a scoundrel.
Miss Van Tuyn was a free agent.
She had the right to choose her own friends, her own lovers.
Once he had decided that he would not give up his intimacy with her in favour of another man without a struggle, the sort of polite, and perhaps subtle, struggle which is suitable to the twentieth century, when man must only be barbarous in battle.
But since the encounter in Glebe Place he had changed his mind.
Disgust had seized him that day.
What could he think but that Beryl Van Tuyn had deliberately induced him to come to Glebe Place, in order that he might see not only her absolute indifference to him but also her intimacy with Arabian?
Her reason for such a crude exposure of her lightness of conduct escaped Craven.
He could not conceive what she was up to, unless her design was to arouse in him violent jealousy.
He did feel jealous, but he was certainly not going to show it.
Besides, the delicacy that was natural in him was disquieted by what he thought of as the coarseness of her behaviour.
As once more he looked at Lady Sellingworth’s letter he was struck by something final in the wording of it.
There was nothing explicit in it.
On the contrary, that seemed to be carefully avoided.
But the allusions to old age, to disturbing influences, the decision not to go again to the _Bella Napoli_--these seemed to hint an intention to return to a former state of being, to abandon a new path of life.
And he remembered a conversation with Francis Braybrooke at the club, the interest it had roused in him.
Some slumbering feeling for romance had been stirred in him, he now thought, by that conversation, by the information he had received about the distinguished recluse who had lived a great life and then suddenly plunged into old age and complete retirement.
Now he seemed to hear a door shutting, and he was outside it.
She had allowed him to enter her life for a short time, to enter it almost intimately.
But she was surely repenting of that intimacy.
He did not know why.
Did he ever know why a woman did this or that?
There was no suggestion in the letter that he should ever call again, no hint of a desire to see him.
She was only sorry, politely sorry, that she had not been able to see him that day.
But no reason was given for the inability.
She had not considered it necessary to give him a reason.
When she had gone abroad without letting him know he had said to himself that his brief friendship with her had come to an end.
He felt that more acutely now.
For she had come back from abroad.
She was close to him in London.
She had tried him again.
Evidently she must have found him wanting.
For once more she was giving him up.
Perhaps he was too young.
Perhaps he bored her.
He did not know.
“I don’t suppose I shall ever know.”

To that conclusion he came at last.
And the sense of finality grew in him, cold and inexorable.
She was a mystery to him.
He did not love her.
He had never thought of her as she had thought of him.
He had never known or suspected what her feelings for him had been.
But he felt that something which might have meant a good deal, even perhaps a great deal, to him was being withdrawn from his life.
And this withdrawal hurt him and saddened him.
He locked up her letter in his dispatch box.
It would be a souvenir of a friendship which had seemed to promise much and which had ended abruptly in mystery.
He did not answer it.
Perhaps, probably, he would have done so but for the last two sentences in it.
CHAPTER IX

After Lady Sellingworth had written and sent her note to Craven she felt that she was facing a new phase of life, and she thought of it as the last phase.
Her sacrifice of self was surely complete at last.
She had exposed her nature naked to Beryl Van Tuyn.
She had given up her friendship with Alick Craven.
There was nothing more for her to do.
The call of youth had wrung from her a response which created loneliness around her.
And now she had to find within herself the resolution to face this loneliness bravely.
When she wrote to Craven she had meant him to understand something of what he had understood.
Yet she did not desire to hurt him.
She would not have hurt him for the world.
Secretly her heart yearned over him.
But she could never let him know that.
He might be puzzled by her letter.
He might even resent it.
But he would soon forget any feeling roused by it.
And he would no doubt soon forget her, the old woman who had been kind to him for a time, who had even been almost Bohemian with him in a very mild way, and who had then tacitly given him up.
Perhaps she would see him again.
Probably she would.
She had no intentions of permanently closing her door against him.
But she would not encourage him to come.
She would never dine out with him again.
If he came he must come as an ordinary caller at the ordinary caller’s hour.
Seymour Portman called on her in the late afternoon of the day when she wrote to Craven.
Just before his arrival she was feeling peculiarly blank and almost confusedly dull.
She had gone through so much recently, had lived at such high tension, had suffered such intense nervous excitement, in the restaurant of the _Bella Napoli_ and afterwards, that both body and mind refused to function quite normally.
Long ago she had stayed at St. Moritz in the depth of the winter, and had got up each morning to greet the fierce blue sky, the blazing sun, the white glare of the enveloping snows with a strange feeling of light, yet depressed, detachment.
She began to have a similar feeling now.
Far down she was horribly sad.
But her surface seemed to say, “Nothing matters, because I am in an abnormal condition, and while I remain in this condition nothing can really matter to me.” Surface and depths were in contradiction, yet she was not even fully aware of that.
A numbness held her, and yet she was nervous.
She heard the drawing-room door open and Murgatroyd’s voice make the familiar announcement; she saw Seymour’s upright, soldierly figure come into the room; she smiled a greeting to her old friend; and the sound of Murgatroyd’s voice, the sight of Seymour coming towards her, her own response to sound and sight, did not conquer the sensation of numbness.
“Yes, he is here.
He does not forget me.
He loves me and will always love me.
But what does it matter?”

A voice seemed to be saying that within her.
Recently she had suffered acutely; she had made a great effort; she had conquered herself and been conquered by another.
And it had all been just too much for her.
She was, she thought, like one who had fought desperately lying in deadly silence and calm on the deserted battlefield, utterly passive because utterly tired out.
But Seymour did not know that.
He knew nothing of all that had happened, and Beryl knew everything.
And she thought of a picture called “Love locked out.” It was hardly fair that Seymour should know so little.
And while he was quietly talking to her, telling her little bits of news which he thought would interest her, letting her in by proxy as it were to the life of the great world which she had abandoned but in which he still played a part, she was thinking, “If Seymour knew what I have done!
If I told him, what would he think, what would he say?” He would be pleased, no doubt.
But would he be surprised?
And while she listened and talked she began to wonder, but always without intensity, about that.
Seymour would think she had done the inevitable thing, what any thoroughbred was bound to do.
And yet--would he be surprised nevertheless that she had been able to do it?
She began presently to feel a slight tingle of curiosity about that.
Had she, perhaps, to a certain extent justified Seymour’s fidelity?
He had a splendid character.
She certainly had not.
She had done countless things that Seymour must have hated, and secretly condemned.
And yet he had somehow been able to go on loving her.
Was that because he had always instinctively known that somewhere within her there was a traditional virtue which marched with his, that there was a voice which spoke his language?
“I suppose, in spite of all, in a way we are akin,” she thought.
And she began to wish vaguely that he knew it, that he knew what had happened between her and Beryl.
As she looked at his “cauliflower,”  bent towards her while he talked, at his strong soldier’s face, at his faithful eyes, the eyes of the “old dog,” she wished that it were possible to let Seymour know a little bit of the best of her.
Not that she was proud of what she had done.
She was too much akin to Seymour to be proud of such a thing, But Seymour would be pleased with her.
And it would be pleasant to give him pleasure.
It would be like giving him a small, a very small, reward for his long faithfulness, for his very beautiful and touching loyalty.
“What is it, Adela?” he said.
And a keen, searching look had come into his eyes.
She smiled vaguely, meeting his gaze.
She still felt curiously detached, although she was able to think quite connectedly.
“What are you thinking about?”

“Why do you ask?”

“I feel you are not as usual to-day.”

“In what way?”

“Something has happened.
I don’t, of course, wish to know what it is.
But it has changed you, my dear.”

“In what way?” she said again.
His reply startled her, set her free from her feeling of numbness, of light detachment, from what she called to herself her “St.
Moritz feeling.”

“I feel as if you were coming into possession of your true self at last,” he said very gravely.
“But as if perhaps you scarcely knew it yet.”

A slow red crept in her cheeks, which would never know again the touch of the artificial red.
“Dear Seymour!
My true self!
I wonder what sort of self you think that is?”

“That’s easily told.
It is the self I have been loving for so many years.
And now--”

He got up, still alert in his movement, out of his chair.
“You are going?”

“Yes.
I have to meet ‘Better not’ at the Marlborough to talk over His Majesty’s visit to Manchester.”

“Ah!” she said.
“Better not” was the nickname given at Court to a certain much-valued gentleman about the king.
She did not try to detain Seymour.
But when he had gone deep depression overcame her.
She was the helpless victim of a tremendous reaction.
So long as she had been in activity she had been able to endure.
Even the horror of the _Bella Napoli_, complex and cruelly intense as the probing of steel among the nerves of the body, she had been able to live through without obvious flinching.
But then there had been something to do, something to deal with, something to get the better of.
There had been a necessity for action.
And now there was nothing.
Her activities were over.
Seymour had broken the curious spell which for a short time had bound her, and now she realized everything with unnatural acuteness.
What was the good of coming into possession of her true self?
What was the good of anything?
Life was activity.
Her late close contact with youth, her obligation to do something difficult and, to her, tremendous for youth had taught her that anew, and now she must somehow reconcile herself to extinction.
For this was really what lay before her now--extinction while still alive.
Better surely to be struggling with horrors than to be merely dying away.
She even looked back to the scene with Beryl and thought of it almost with longing.
For how she had lived in that scene!
At moments during it she had entirely forgotten herself.
Was that perhaps life, the only real life--entire forgetfulness of self?
If so, how seldom she had lived!
In all her sixty years, in all her so-called “great life,” for how short a time she had lived!
She had just then, even in the midst of her reaction, a feeling of illumination.
She was in darkness, but around the darkness, as if enclosing it and her in it, there was light, a light she had never been really aware of till now.
Something within her said:

“I see!”

She went up to her bedroom, shut herself in, went to a bookshelf, and took down a Bible which stood on it.
She turned its pages till she came to the Sermon on the Mount.
Then she began to read.
And presently, as she read, a queer thought came to her.
“If the ‘old guard’ could see me now!”

It was late when she stopped reading.
She shut up the Holy Book, put it back on the shelf, and took down a volume of poems.
And after reading the Bible she read the poem of the Wild Heart.
And then she read nothing more.
But her reading had waked up in her a longing which was not familiar to her except in connexion with what she supposed was the baser part of her, the part which had troubled, had even tortured her so many times in her life.
She had often longed to do things for men whom she loved, or fancied she loved.
Now she was conscious of a yearning more altruistic.
She wished to be purely unselfish, if that were ever possible.
And she believed it to be possible.
For was not Seymour unselfish?
He surely often forgot himself in her.
But she had always remembered herself in others.
“What a monstrous egoist I have been all my life!” she thought, with a sense of despair.
“Only once have I acted with a purely unselfish motive, and that was with Beryl.
Yes, Beryl gave me the one opportunity I took advantage of.
And now it is all over.
Everything is finished.
It is too late to try a new way of living.”

She forgot many little sacrifices she had made in the war, or she did not count them to her credit.
For patriotism in war seemed as natural to her as drawing breath.
She was thinking of her personal life in connexion with individuals.
She had once been unselfish--for Beryl.
That was over.
Everything was over.
And yet Seymour had said that he felt as if at last she were coming into possession of her true self.
So he had noticed a difference.
It was as if what she had been able to do for Beryl had subtly altered her.
But there was nothing more for her to do.
That evening she felt loneliness as she had never felt it before.
A sort of mental nausea seized her as she dressed for her solitary dinner.
For whom was she changing her gown?
For Murgatroyd!
How grotesque the unwritten regulations of a life like hers were!
Why go down to dinner at all?
She had no appetite.
Nevertheless, everything was done in due order.
Her hair was arranged.
Cecile looked at her critically to see that everything was right.
For Murgatroyd!
Even a jewel was brought to be pinned in to the front of her gown.
It was a big ruby surrounded by diamonds, and as it flashed in the light it brought back to her the hideous memory of Arabian.
What would he do now?
It was very strange that after ten years she had been able, indeed she had been obliged, to revenge herself upon him, this man whom she had never known, to whom she had never even spoken.
And she had never dreamed of revenge.
She had let him go with his prey.
Probably her jewels had enabled him to live as he wished to live for years.
And now she had paid him back!
Did Fate work blindly, or was there a terribly subtle and inexorable plan at work through all human life?
“Miladi does not like to wear this ruby?” said Cecile.
“Why do you say that?”

“Milady looks at it so strangely!”

“It reminds me of something.
Yes, I will wear it to-night.
But what’s the good?”

“Miladi--?”

“No one will see it but myself.”

“Milady should go out more, much more, and receive company here.”

“Perhaps I’ll give a series of dinners,” said Lady Sellingworth with a smile.
And she turned away and went down.
Murgatroyd and a footman were waiting for her.
On the dining table was a menu telling her what she had to eat, what her cook had been, and was, busy over in the kitchen.
She sat down at the big table, picked up the menu and glanced at it.
But she did not see what was written on it.
She saw only in imagination the years before her, perhaps five years, perhaps ten, perhaps even more.
For her race was a long living one.
She might, like some of her forbears, live to be very old.
Ten years more of dinners like this one in Berkeley Square!
Could that be endured?
As she sipped her soup she thought of travelling.
She might shut up the house, go over the seas, wander through the world.
There were things to be seen.
Nature spread her infinite variety for the sons and the daughters of men.
She might advertise in _The Times_ for a travelling companion.
There would be plenty of answers.
Or she might get one of her many acquaintances to come with her, some pleasant woman who would not talk too much, or too little.
Fish!
When, finally, some fruit had been put before her, and Murgatroyd and the footman had left the room, she remained--so she thought of it--like a mummy in the tomb which belonged to her.
And presently through the profound silence she heard the hoot of a motor-horn.
Someone going somewhere!
Someone who had something to do, somewhere to go!
Someone from whom all the activities had not passed away for ever!
The motor-horn sounded again nearer.
Now she heard the faint sound of wheels.
The car was coming down her side of the Square.
The buzz of the machine reached her ears now, then the grinding of brakes.
The car had stopped somewhere close by, at the next house perhaps.
She heard an electric bell.
That was in her own house.
Then the car had stopped at her door.
She listened, and immediately heard a step in the hall.
Murgatroyd, or the footman, was going to the door.
She wondered who the caller could be.
Possibly Seymour!
But he never came at that hour.
A moment later Murgatroyd appeared in the room.
“Miss Van Tuyn has called, my lady, and begs you to see her.”

“Miss Van Tuyn!
Ask her--take her up to the drawing-room, please.
I am just finishing.
I will come in a minute.”

“Yes, my lady.”

Murgatroyd went out and shut the door behind him.
Then Lady Sellingworth took a peach from a dish in front of her and began to peel it.
She had not intended to eat any fruit before Murgatroyd had given her this news.
But she felt that she must have a few minutes by herself.
Not long ago she had been appalled by the thought of extinction: had yearned for activity, had even desired opportunities for unselfishness.
Now, suddenly, she was afraid, and clung to her loneliness.
For she felt certain that Beryl had come to ask her to do something in connexion with Arabian.
Something must have happened since their interview yesterday, and the girl had come to her to ask her help.
She ate the peach very slowly, scarcely tasting it.
At last it was finished, and she got up from the table.
She must not keep Beryl waiting any longer.
She must go upstairs.
But she went reluctantly, almost in fear, wondering, dreading what was coming upon her.
When she opened the drawing-room door she saw Beryl standing by the fire.
“Adela!”

Beryl came forward hurriedly with a nervous manner Lady Sellingworth had never noticed in her before.
Her face was very pale.
There were dark rings under her eyes.
She looked apprehensive, distracted even.
“Do forgive me for bursting in on you like this at such an hour!”

“Of course!”

She took Beryl’s hand.
It was hot, and clasped hers with a closeness that was almost violent.
“What is it?
Is anything the matter?”

“I want your advice.
I don’t--I don’t quite know what to do.
You see, there’s nobody but you I can come to.
I know I have no right--I have no claim upon you.
You have been so good to me already.
No other woman would have done what you have done.
But you see, I promised never to--I can’t speak to anyone else.
I might have gone to Dick Garstin perhaps.
.
.
.
I don’t know!
But as it is I can’t speak to a soul but you.”

“Is it something about that man?”

“Yes.
I’m afraid of him.”

“Why?”

“I’m sure he doesn’t mean to--I’m sure he won’t give me up easily.
I know he won’t!”

“Sit down, Beryl.”

“Yes--may I?”

“Have you seen him?”

“Oh, no--no!”

“Has he written?”

“Yes.
And he has called to-day.
Last night directly I got back to the hotel I gave orders at the bureau that if he called they were to say ‘not at home.’”

“Well then--”

“But he got in!”

“How could he?”

“When they said I was out he asked for Fanny--Fanny Cronin, my companion.
He sent up his card to her, and as I hadn’t spoken to her--you know I promised not to say anything--she told them to let him come up.
She likes him!”

“And were you in the hotel?”

“No, thank God I was really out.
But I came back while he was still there.”

“Then--”

“No, I didn’t see him, as I told you.
When I was just going up in the lift, something--it was almost like second sight, I think--prompted me to go to the bureau and ask if anyone was in our rooms.
And they told me _he_ was with Fanny, had been with her for over an hour.”

“What did you do?”

“I went out at once.
I called on one or two people, I stayed out till nearly half-past seven.
I walked about in the dark.
I was afraid to go near the hotel.
It was horrible.
Finally I thought he must have gone and I ventured to go back.
I hurried through the hall.
The lift was there.
I went into it at once.
I didn’t look round.
I was afraid he might have come down and be waiting about for me.
When I got to our apartment I went straight to my bedroom and rang for my maid.
She said he was gone.
Then I went to Fanny.
He had been having tea with her and had stayed two hours.
He had--she’s very foolish, poor old thing!--he had completely fascinated her.”

Suddenly she blushed violently.
“I have no right to say that about Fanny.
But I mean he had laid himself out to--”

“I quite understand,” said Lady Sellingworth, with a sort of awkward dryness which she could not evade though she hated herself for it.
It was hideous, she felt, being mixed up with this old Miss Cronin and Beryl Van Tuyn in a sort of horrible sisterhood of victims of this vile man’s fascination.
Her flesh crept at the indignity of it, and all her patrician pride revolted at being remembered among his probably innumerable conquests.
At that moment she felt punished for having so often in her life betrayed the best part of her nature.
“I quite understand, Beryl.
You need not explain.”

“No.”

There was an unpleasant silence during which neither woman looked at the other.
Then Lady Sellingworth said:

“But you haven’t told me everything.
And if I am to--if anything is to be done, can be done, I suppose you had better tell me everything.”

“Yes.
I want to.
I must.
Mr.--he told Fanny that I was--that I had promised to marry him.”

“Ah!”

“He told her that I had been to his flat on the very day that I had heard of my father’s death and since.
He promised Fanny that--that when we were married she should have a home with us.
Isn’t that horrible?
Fanny has been afraid of my marrying because, you see, she depends in a way on me.
She doesn’t want to leave me.
She’s got accustomed--”

“Yes--yes.”

“He told her that people knew about my visits to him.
Mrs. Birchington lives in the flat opposite his, and she knows.
He contrived that she should know.
I realize that now.”

“A man like that lays his plans carefully.”

“Yes.
Oh--how humiliating it all is!
Fanny was enthusiastic about him.”

“What did you say?”

“I was very careful.
Because I promised you!
But I know she thinks--she must think I am in love with him.
But that doesn’t matter.
Only it makes things difficult.
But it isn’t that which brought me here.
I’m afraid of him.”

“Have you ever written to him?”

“No--never!”

“But you say he has written to you.”

“Yes.
When he left Fanny he wrote a letter in the hotel and had it sent up to my room.
Fanny gave it me just now.
I’ve got it here.”

She drew a letter out of a little bag she had brought with her.
“I--I can’t show it--”

“Oh--please--I don’t want to see it!” said Lady Sellingworth, with an irrepressible shrinking of disgust.
“No, of course not.
Adela, please don’t think I imagined you did!
But I must tell you--I know you hate all this.
You must hate it.
Oh, do forgive me for coming here!
I know I oughtn’t to.
But I’m afraid--I’m afraid of him!”

“Why are you so afraid?
What can he do?”

“A man like that might do anything!”

“Are you sure?
I think such a man is probably a coward at heart.”

But Miss Van Tuyn shook her head.
“He’s got nerves of steel.
I am sure of it.
Besides--”

She paused, and a strange conscious look came into her face--a look which Lady Sellingworth did not understand.
“Yes?” she said at last, as Beryl did not speak.
“Adela, I know you will not believe me.
I know--you spoke once of my being very vain, but--but there are things a girl does know about a man, really there are!
They may seem ridiculous, crazy to others, but--”

“What is it, Beryl?”

“I believe besides wanting my money he wants _me_.
That’s why I’m afraid.
If it weren’t for that I--perhaps I shouldn’t have come to-night.
Can you believe it?”

Lady Sellingworth looked at the girl with eyes which in spite of herself were hard.
She knew they were hard, but she could not help it.
Then she said:

“Yes, I can believe it.”

“And that he may--he may persist in spite of all.
He may refuse to give it up.”

“Haven’t you got a will?”

“Yes.”

“Can’t you use it?”

“Yes.
But I’m afraid of him.
I believe I’ve always been afraid of him.
No one else has ever been able to make me feel as I do about him.
Once I read an article in a paper.
It was about a horrible play--a woman who was drawn to a man irresistibly in spite of herself, to a hateful man, a murderer.
And she went; she had to go.
I remember I thought of _him_ then.
It was a fascination of fear, Adela.
There are such things.”

“Do you mean to say that after what I have told you--”

“I want someone to get him away, to drive him away from me so that I shall never see him, so that he will never come near me again!
I might go to Paris.
But it would be no use.
He would follow me there.
I might go to America.
But that would be just the same.
He says so in this letter.”

She held up the letter in her hand.
“Does he threaten you?”

“No--not exactly!
No, he doesn’t!
It’s worse than that.
If he did I think I might find the courage.
He’s subtle, Adela.
He’s horribly subtle!
Besides, he doesn’t know--he can’t know that you have told me what he is.”

“He might guess it.
He probably guessed it.
He recognized me in the restaurant.”

“Yes.
He didn’t want you to come to our table.
But he never spoke of you afterwards.
He didn’t say a word, or show the slightest sign.
But in this letter I feel that he suspects--that he is afraid something may happen through you, and that--”

“Perhaps he knows you came to see me last night.”

“How could he?”

“It wouldn’t be difficult for a man of that type.”

“I walked home alone, and nobody--”

“That doesn’t prove anything.
He is subtle, as you say.”

“I am sure from this letter that he guesses something has happened, that I may have been set against him, and that he doesn’t mean to give me up, whatever happens.
I feel that in his letter.
And I want someone to drive him away from me.
Oh, I wish I had never seen him!
I wish I had never seen him!”

Again Lady Sellingworth heard the cry of youth, and this time it was piteous, almost despairing.
She did not answer it in words.
Indeed, instead of showing any pity, any strong instinct of protection, she turned away from Beryl.
The girl wondered why she did this, and for a moment thought that perhaps she was angry.
The situation was difficult, horribly difficult.
Beryl had delicacy enough to understand that.
Perhaps she ought not to have come to Adela again.
Perhaps she was asking too much, more than any woman could bring herself to do, or to try to do.
But she had no one else to go to, and she was really afraid, miserably afraid.
Lady Sellingworth stood quite still by the fire with her back to Beryl, and as the silence continued at last Beryl made up her mind that there was nothing to be hoped for from her and got up slowly.
“Adela,” she said, trying to summon some pride, some courage, “I understand.
You can’t do anything more.
I oughtn’t to have come.
It was monstrous, I suppose.
But--it’s like that in life.
So few people will help.
And those that do--well, they get asked for more.
I’ll--I’ll manage somehow.
It’s all my own fault.
I must try to--”

Then Lady Sellingworth turned round.
Her white face was very grave, almost stern, like the face of one who was thinking with concentration.
“I’m ready to try to do what I can, Beryl,” she said.
“But there’s only one way I can think of.
And to take it I shall have to tell the whole truth.”

“About me?”

“About you and myself.”

“Oh--but you couldn’t do that!”

“I believe that I ought to.”

“But--but--to whom?”

“There’s only one person I could possibly speak to, and he’s the finest man I have ever met.
He might do something.
I’m thinking of Seymour Portman.”

“Adela!
But you couldn’t tell _him_!”

“Why not?”

“Adela--he loves you.
Everyone knows that.”

“And that’s just why I could tell him--him only.”

Miss Van Tuyn looked down.
Suddenly she felt that she had tears in her eyes.
“You have kept your cab, haven’t you?” said Lady Sellingworth.
“Yes.”

“Go home now.
I will telephone to Seymour.
I’ll let you know later--to-morrow morning perhaps--what he thinks had better be done.
Now, good night, Beryl!”

She held out her hand.
Beryl took it, but did not press it.
Somehow she felt awed, and at a distance from this pale quiet woman.
Lady Sellingworth touched the bell, and Beryl Van Tuyn left the room.
CHAPTER X

As soon as Beryl had gone Lady Sellingworth went downstairs to her writing-room.
She turned on the electric light as she went in to the room, and glanced at the clock on the mantelpiece.
The hands pointed to half-past nine.
She wondered where Seymour was dining.
He might chance to be at home.
It was much more likely that he was dining out, at one of his clubs or elsewhere.
If he were at home and alone he would come to her at once; if not she would perhaps have to wait till half-past ten or eleven.
She hoped to find him at St. James’s Palace.
As this thing had to be done--and now she had burnt her boats, for she had promised Beryl--she wished to do it quickly.
She inquired through the telephone if Seymour was at home.
His servant replied that he was out.
She asked where.
The servant did not know.
His master had dressed and gone out at a quarter to eight without saying where he was dining.
Lady Sellingworth frowned as she received this information.
She hesitated for a moment, then she said:

“As soon as Sir Seymour comes in, however late it may be, I want to see him on an urgent matter.
If you go to bed before he comes back, will you please leave a written message in the hall asking him to visit Lady Sellingworth at once in Berkeley Square.
It is very important.”

“Yes, my lady,” said the voice.
“You won’t forget?
I shall be sitting up for Sir Seymour.”

“No, my lady.
I will stay up and inform Sir Seymour.”

“Thank you.”

She put the receiver back in its place and again looked at the clock.
She had not much hope of seeing Seymour before eleven at the earliest.
He might be at a big dinner.
He might be at the theatre.
Probably he would go to his club afterwards.
She might not see him till midnight, even later perhaps.
Well, it could not be helped.
She must just be patient, must wait calmly.
But she did not want to wait.
She was beginning to feel nervous, and she knew that the nervousness would increase in suspense.
How unlucky that Seymour was out!
She rang the bell.
Murgatroyd came.
“I am expecting Sir Seymour to-night, Murgatroyd,” she said, “about some important business.
But I can’t find out where he is, so he won’t know till he goes home.
That may be late.
But he will come here directly he gets my message.
I’m sorry to keep you up, but I should like you to let him in.”

“Certainly, my lady,” said Murgatroyd.
“I shall be waiting for him in the drawing-room.
Bring me up some camomile tea, will you?
And put out a cigar and whisky and Perrier for Sir Seymour.”

“Yes, my lady.”

“That’s all.”

Murgatroyd stood back to let her pass out of the room.
She thought at that moment there was something sympathetic in his face.
“I believe he’s rather devoted to me, and to Seymour too,” she said to herself as she went upstairs.
“I don’t think he’ll say anything to the others.
Not that it matters if he does!”

Nevertheless she felt oddly shy about Seymour coming to her very late at night, and wondered what Murgatroyd thought of that long friendship.
No doubt he knew, no doubt all the servants knew, how devoted to her Seymour was.
She went into the drawing-room and sat down by the fire, and very soon Murgatroyd brought in the camomile tea.
Then he placed on a side table a box of cigars, whisky and Perrier water, and went out.
The clock chimed the quarter before ten.
Camomile tea is generally supposed to be good for the nerves.
That was why Lady Sellingworth had ordered it; that was why she drank it now.
For now she was beginning to feel horribly nervous, and the feeling seemed to increase in her with every passing moment.
It was dreadful waiting for Seymour like this.
She felt all her courage and determination oozing away.
When Beryl had been there, and that strange and abrupt decision had been come to, Lady Sellingworth had felt almost glad.
Seymour would know what Beryl knew, the worst and perhaps the best, of his old friend.
And there was no one else she could go to.
Seymour was an old soldier, a thorough man of the world, absolutely discreet, with a silent tongue and proved courage and coolness.
No one surely existed more fitted to deal drastically with a scoundrel than he.
Lady Sellingworth had no idea what he would do.
But he would surely find a way to get rid of Arabian, to “drive” him, as Beryl had put it, out of the girl’s life for ever.
Yes, he would find a way.
Lady Sellingworth felt positive of that, and, feeling thus positive, she realized how absolutely she trusted Seymour, trusted his heart, his brain, his whole character.
Nevertheless she looked again and again at the clock, and began to feel almost sick with anxiety.
The thought of confession had scarcely frightened her when Beryl was with her.
Indeed, it had brought her a sense of relief.
But now she began to feel almost panic-stricken at the knowledge of what was before her.
And she began to wonder exactly how much Seymour understood of her character, exactly how much he knew of her past.
He must certainly know a great deal, and perhaps suspect more than he knew.
She had once been almost explicit with him, on the terrible day when she had tried to make up her mind to marry him, and had failed.
And yet he might be surprised, he might even be horrified when she told him.
It was such an ugly story, such a hideous story.
And Seymour was full of natural rectitude.
Whatever he had done in his life, he must always have been incapable of stooping down to the gutter, as she had stooped.
She grew hot and then cold at the thought of telling him.
Perhaps he would not be able to bear it.
Perhaps even his love could not stand so much as that.
If, after she had told him, he looked at her with different eyes, if he changed towards her!
He would not want to change, but if he could not help it!
How awful that would be!
Something deep down within her seemed to founder at the mere thought of it.
To lose Seymour!
That would indeed be the end of everything that made life worth living for her.
She shuddered on her sofa.
Then she got up and stood before the blazing fire.
But still she felt cold.
Surely she had acted imprudently when Beryl was there.
She had been carried away, had yielded to a sudden impulse.
And yet no!
For she had stood with her back to Beryl for several minutes before she had said she was going to tell Seymour.
And through those minutes she had been thinking hard.
Yes; but she had not thought as she was thinking now.
She began to feel desperate.
It was nearly eleven o’clock.
The time had flown.
Why had she asked Seymour to come to-night?
She might just as well have waited till to-morrow, have “slept on it.” The night brings counsel.
Yet how could she break her promise to Beryl?
It would be no use debating, for she had promised.
The clock struck eleven.
Seymour might come now in a moment.
On the other hand, he might not reach home till midnight, or even later.
It would really be a shame to bring him out again at such an hour.
She had been thoughtless when she was at the telephone.
And she was keeping his man up; Murgatroyd too.
That was scarcely fair.
It would not matter if Seymour came now, but if he did not get home till much later, as was possible, even probable!
She had surely been rather selfish in her desire to do something quickly for Beryl.
There was no such terrible hurry about the matter.
An overwhelming desire to postpone things took hold of her.
She wanted to have time to think over how she would put it to Seymour.
Would not it perhaps be possible to obtain his help for Beryl without telling him the whole truth about Arabian?
She might just say that she knew the man was a blackguard without saying why she knew.
There was perhaps no need to be absolutely explicit.
Seymour would take it from her without asking awkward questions.
He was the least curious of men.
He would probably much rather not know the truth.
It would be as horrible for him to hear it as for her to tell it.
But she must have time to think carefully over how she would put it to him.
Yes, she must have time.
Better to see him to-morrow morning.
A quarter-past eleven!
It would really be monstrous to drag Seymour out to have a long confabulation about a girl whom he scarcely knew, and could have no interest in, at this time of night.
And she turned from the fire and went decisively towards the door.
She would go down at once and telephone to Seymour’s apartment in St. James’s Palace cancelling her request to his manservant.
She found Murgatroyd waiting in the hall.
He looked faintly surprised at seeing her.
“Oh, Murgatroyd!” she said.
“It’s getting so late that I’ve decided to put off Sir Seymour till to-morrow.
I’m just going to telephone now.
So you needn’t sit up any longer.”

“Very well, my lady.”

“Good night.”

“Good night, my lady.”

“I’ll turn out the lights when I go up.”

“Shan’t I--”

“No--you needn’t.
Good night.”

She went into the writing-room and shut the door behind her.
The thought of the intense relief she would feel directly she had spoken through the telephone and put off Seymour, directly it was settled that he was not to come and see her that night, sent her straight to the telephone.
She was eager to communicate with his servant.
But she wished now intensely that she had not waited so long.
She might possibly be too late.
Seymour might have returned home, had her message, and started for Berkeley Square.
She took the receiver in her hand and was just going to speak when she heard a cab outside in the Square.
She listened.
It came up and stopped at her door.
That was Seymour!
She was certain of it.
She put the receiver back in its place and stood quite still, listening.
The bell was rung.
Murgatroyd could not have gone to bed.
He would answer the bell no doubt.
If he did not she would have to answer it.
After a pause she heard the bell again, then, almost immediately the front door being opened, and a faint murmur of voices.
An instant later she heard the cab drive away.
Perhaps--had Seymour called and gone away?
Could Murgatroyd have--The door behind her opened.
She turned sharply.
“Sir Seymour Portman has called to see you, my lady.”

Looking beyond Murgatroyd she saw Seymour standing in the hall, in evening dress and a thick black overcoat.
Seymour had sent away his cab!
She went into the hall smiling faintly.
“So you have come!
I was just going to speak to your man through the telephone, to tell him not to bother you, that it didn’t matter, and that to-morrow would do as well.
It’s so very late.”

He began to take off his overcoat, helped by Murgatroyd.
“Not a bit too late!” he said.
“I shall enjoy a little talk with you by the fire.
Thanks, Murgatroyd!
I was dining out with the Montgomeries in Eaton Square.”

“Come upstairs.”

She led the way, and as she mounted slowly with him close behind her she felt weak and now horribly afraid.
She went into the drawing-room.
He followed and shut the door, then came slowly, with his firm tread, towards her and the fire.
“Ah!” he said.
“You thought of me!”

He had seen the cigar-box, the whisky and Perrier.
A very gentle, intensely kind, almost beaming look came into his lined face.
“Or--was it Murgatroyd?”

“No.”

“I wonder whether you know what it means to an old fellow like myself to be thought of now and then in these little ways!”

“Oh--Seymour!” she said.
Tears stood in her eyes.
His few simple words had suddenly brought home to her in a strange, intense way the long loneliness to which she had condemned him.
And now he was an old fellow!
And he was grateful, beamingly grateful, for a little commonplace thought about his comfort such as any hostess might surely have had!
“Don’t!” she added.
“You hurt me when you say such a thing.”

“Do I?
And if I take a cigar?”

“Here!
Let me clip it for you!”

As she clipped it he said:

“There is nothing serious the matter, is there, Adela?
When I had your message I felt a little anxious.”

She lit a match for him.
She felt very tender over him, but she felt also very much afraid of him.
“Your hand is trembling, my dear!”

He took hold of her wrist, and held it while she lit his cigar.
And his dry, firm fingers seemed to send her some strength.
“If only I had as little to be ashamed of as he has!” she thought, with a sort of writhing despair.
And she longed, as never before, for an easy conscience.
“I’ve had rather a trying time just lately,” she said.
“Come and sit down.
Will you drink something?”

“Not yet, thank you.”

He sat down in an arm-chair and crossed his legs, putting the right leg over the left, as he always did.
She was on her sofa, leaning on her left arm, and looking at him.
She was trying to read him, to read his whole character, to force her way to his secret, that she might be sure how much she might dare.
Could he ever turn against her?
Was that possible?
His kind, dark eyes were fixed upon her.
Could they ever look unkindly at her?
She could scarcely believe that they could.
But she knew that in human nature few things are impossible.
Such terrible changes can take place in a moment.
And the mystery is never really solved.
“Well, my dear, would you like to tell me what is troubling you?
Perhaps I can do something.”

“I want you to do something for me.
Or rather--it would really be for somebody else.
You remember Beryl Van Tuyn?”

“The daffodil girl--yes.”

“She has been here to-night.
She is in a great difficulty.
By the way, of course she knows about my consulting you.
I told her I would do it.”

“I did not suppose you would give away a confidence.”

“No!
Seymour, has it ever struck you that there is something in you and in me which is akin in spite of the tremendous differences in our natures?”

“Oh yes.”

“I’m glad.
I like to feel that and--and I want you to feel it.”

“I do.
I feel it strongly.”

“Whatever happens it would always be there.”

“Yes, of course.”

“It helps you to understand me, I expect.”

“Surely it must.”

“I wonder if you could ever--”

“What is it, Adela?”

“I wonder if you could ever turn against me.”

“I don’t think that is very likely,” he said.
She looked at him.
He was smiling.
“But--could nothing cause you to change towards me?”

“Some things might cause me to change towards anyone.”

“Ah!”

“But as they are not in your nature we need not consider them.”

“But how do you know?”

“I do know.”

“But--what?”

“I know what you might do, or may have done.
I know just as well what you have never done and could never do.”

“But I have done some horrible things, Seymour.”

“They are past.
Let us forget them.”

“But--horrible things come back in one’s life!
They are like _revenants_.
After years--they rise up.”

“What is the matter, Adela?
Do tell me.”

“I want to, but I’m afraid.”

And directly she had told him that she felt less afraid.
“What are you afraid of?”

“I’m afraid of you.”

“Of me?”

“Of what you may think of me, feel towards me, if I tell you.”

“Then--you do care what I feel?”

“I care very much.
I care terribly.”

Sir Seymour uncrossed his legs and made a slight movement as if he were going to get up.
Then he sat still and took a pull at his cigar, and then he said:

“You need not be afraid of me, Adela.
I have made up my mind about you.
Do you know what that means?
It means that you cannot surprise me.
And I think it is surprise which oftenest brings about changes in feeling.
What is it?
You say it is something to do with Miss Van Tuyn?”

“Yes, but my life is in it, too; a horrible bit of my life.”

“What can I do unless you tell me?”

“That’s true.”

She sat for a moment in silence gazing at him, at the lean figure, the weather-beaten face, the curly white hair, and at the dark eyes which were looking steadily at her, but not penetratingly, not cruelly.
And then she sat straight up, took her arm from the sofa, folded her hands on her lap with an effort to make them look calm, and began to tell him.
She spoke very simply, very steadily.
She dressed nothing up.
She strove to diminish nothing.
Her only aim was to be quite unemotional and perfectly truthful.
She began with Beryl Van Tuyn’s acquaintance with Arabian, how she had met him in Garstin’s studio, and went on till she came to the night when she and Craven had seen them together at the _Bella Napoli_.
“I recognized the man Beryl was with,” she said.
“I knew him to be a blackguard.”

She described her abrupt departure from the restaurant, Craven’s following her, her effort to persuade him to go back and to take Beryl home.
“I went home alone,” she said, “and considered what I ought to do.
Finally I wrote Beryl a letter, it was something like this.”

She gave him the gist of the letter.
Seymour sat smoking and did not say a word.
Her narrative had been so consecutive and plain that he had no need to ask any question.
And she was glad of his silence.
Any interruption, she felt, would have upset her, perhaps even have confused her.
“Beryl was not satisfied with that letter,” she went on.
“On the night when she had it--last night--she came to me to ask for an explanation.
I didn’t want to give one.
I did my best to avoid giving one.
But when I found she was obstinate, and would not drop this man unless I gave her my reasons for warning her against him, when I found she had even thought of marrying him, I felt that it was my duty to tell her everything.
So I told her--this.”

And then she told him all the truth about the affair of the jewels, emphasizing nothing, but omitting nothing.
She looked away from him, turned her eyes towards the fire, and tried to feel very calm and very detached.
It was all ten years ago.
But did that make any difference?
For was she essentially different from the woman who had been Arabian’s victim?
Still Seymour sat as before and went on smoking.
As she was gazing at the fire she did not know for certain whether he was still looking at her or not.
At last she had finished the personal part of her narrative, though she had still to tell him how Beryl had taken it and what had happened that day.
Before going on to that she paused for a moment.
And immediately she heard Seymour move.
He got up and went slowly to the table where the whisky and Perrier water had been placed by Murgatroyd.
Then she looked at him.
He stood with his back to her.
She saw him bend down and pour out a glass of the water.
Without turning he lifted the glass to his mouth and drank.
Then he put the glass down; and then he stood for a moment quite still, always keeping his back towards her.
She wondered what he was looking at.
That was the question in her mind.
“What can Seymour be looking at?”

At last he turned round.
She thought that his face looked unusually stern, and his bushy eyebrows seemed--so she fancied--to be drawn down low above his eyes.
“Go on--my dear,” he said in a rather gruff and very low voice.
She quivered.
She, perhaps, scarcely knew why.
At the moment she really believed that she did not know why.
Suddenly emotion began to gain on her.
But she struggled resolutely against it.
“Aren’t you--don’t you mean to sit down again?” she said.
“No.
I think I’ll stand.”

And he came slowly to stand by the fire.
“Well,” she began again, making a great effort, “I thought that was all.
I didn’t think there was anything more for me to do.
But Beryl came back again to-night and begged me to help her.
She is terrified of what he may do.
I tried to reassure her.
But it was no good.”

And again she narrated, now with difficulty forcing herself to seem calm and unembarrassed, exactly what had happened that day between Beryl Van Tuyn and herself, till she came to the moment when she had turned away from Beryl and had gone to stand by the fire.
Then once more she paused and seemed seized by hesitation.
As Sir Seymour said nothing, did not help her out, at last she went on:

“Then I thought of you.
I had never meant to tell anyone but Beryl, but as _I_ could do nothing to help her, and as she is perhaps, really in danger--she is only a girl, and she spoke of the fascination of fear--I felt I must make a further effort to do something.
And I thought of you.”

“Why was that?” asked Sir Seymour, turning towards her, but not impulsively.
“Because I knew if anyone could stop this thing you could.”

“That was your reason?”

“That--and--and I knew that I could never tell all this--about myself, I mean--to anyone but you.
For ten years no one has known it.”

“You felt you could tell me!”

The way in which he said those words was so inexpressive that Lady Sellingworth did not know what was the feeling behind them, whether it was astonishment, indignation, or something quite different.
“I--I didn’t want to--” She almost faltered, again full of fear, almost of terror.
“I was afraid to.
But I felt I could, and I had told Beryl so.”

“I wonder what made you feel you could,” he said, still in the same curiously inexpressive way.
She said nothing.
She leaned back on the sofa and her hands began to move restlessly, nervously.
She plucked at her dress, put a hand to the ruby pinned in the front of her bodice, lifted the hand to her face, laid it on the back of the sofa.
“What was it?” he said.
“I hardly feel I can tell you,” she said.
“Then don’t, if you would rather not.
But I should be glad to know.”

“Would you?
I told Beryl the reason.”

She felt forced to say that, forced to speak that bit of truth.
“Then, if so, cannot you tell me?”

“I said--I said I could tell you because I knew you were fond of me.”

“Ah--that was it!”

He was silent.
At last he said:

“I should like to ask you a question.
May I?”

“Yes--please do.”

“Are you very fond of Beryl Van Tuyn?”

“Oh, no!”

“Aren’t you at all fond of her?”

“I’m afraid not.
No.
But I like her much better than I did.”

“Since you have done something for her?”

“Perhaps it is that.”

“It is that.”

He came towards the sofa and stood by it looking down at her.
“I told you just now, Adela, that you couldn’t surprise me.
What you have done in connexion with Beryl Van Tuyn has not surprised me.
I always knew you were capable of such a thing; yes, even of a thing as fine as that.
Thank God you have had your opportunity.
Of course you took it.
But thank God you have had it.”

“I had to take it.
I couldn’t do anything else.”

“Of course _you_ couldn’t.”

She got up.
She did not know why.
She just felt that she had to get up.
Seymour put his hands on her shoulders.
“Have you ever wondered why I was able to go on loving you?” he asked her.
“Yes, very often.”

“Well, now perhaps you won’t wonder any more.”

And he lifted his hands from her shoulders.
But he stood there for a moment looking at her.
And in his eyes she read her reward.
CHAPTER XI

Early on the following morning, soon after ten o’clock Miss Van Tuyn was startled by a knock on her bedroom door.
Everything at all unexpected startled her just now.
Her nerves, as even old Fanny could not help noticing, had gone “all to pieces.” She lived in perpetual fear.
Nearly all the previous night she had been lying awake turning over and over in her mind the horrible possibilities of the future.
It was in vain that she tried to call her normal common sense to the rescue, in vain that she tried to look at facts calmly, to sum them up dispassionately, and to draw from them reasonable conclusions.
She could not be reasonable.
Her brain said to her: “You have no reason for fear.
You are perfectly safe.
Your folly and wilfulness, your carelessness of opinion, your reckless spirit of defiant independence, your ugly and abominable desires”--her brain did not spare her--“might easily have brought you to irretrievable ruin.
They might have destroyed you.
But Fate has intervened to protect you.
You have been saved from the consequences of your own imprudence--to call it by no other name.
Give thanks to the God of luck, and to the woman who sacrificed her pride for your sake, and live differently in the future.” Her brain, in fact, told her she was saved.
But something else that she could not classify, something still and remote and persistent, told her that she was in great danger.
She said to herself, thinking of Arabian: “What can he do?
I am my own mistress.
If I choose to cut him dead he must accept my decision to have nothing more to do with him and go out of my life.
He simply can’t do anything else.
I have the whole thing in my hands.
He hasn’t a scrap of my writing.
He can’t blackmail me.
He can’t compromise me more than I have already compromised myself by going about with him and being seen in his flat.
He is helpless, and I have absolutely nothing to be afraid of.” She said all this to herself, and yet she was full of fear.
That fear had driven her to Lady Sellingworth on the previous evening, and it had grown in the night.
The thought of Arabian tormented her.
She said to herself that he could do nothing and, even while she said it, the inexorable something within her whispered: “What might not that man do?”  Her imagination put no limit now to his possibilities for evil.
All the horrors of the underworld were, for her, congregated together in him.
She trembled at the memory of having been in his arms, shut up alone with him in the flat by the river.
She attributed to him nameless powers.
Something mysterious in him, something occult, had reduced her apparently to the level of an imaginative child, who peoples the night with spectres and conceives of terrors she cannot describe.
She felt that Arabian was not as other men, that he really was what Garstin had called him, a king in the underworld, and that that was why he had had power over her.
She felt that he had within him something which ruled, which would have its way.
She felt that he was more persistent than other men, more crafty, more self-possessed, more capable, more subtle.
She felt that he had greatness as a ruffian, as another man might have greatness as a saint.
And she felt above all that he was an expert with women.
If he had wanted Adela Sellingworth as well as her jewels, how would it have been then?
What would have happened ten years ago?
He had not wanted Adela Sellingworth.
But he wanted her.
She was positive of that.
That he had known she was well off and was going to be rich she did not doubt for a moment.
She could never forget as long as she lived the fleeting expression which had changed his face when she had told him of the death of her father.
At that moment he had certainly felt that a fortune was probably almost within his grasp.
Nevertheless she was positive, she was absolutely certain as a girl can be about such a thing, that he wanted and had long wanted her.
He had waited because mingled with his man’s desire for her there had been the other desire.
He might have rushed at an intrigue.
Such a man could have no real delicacies.
He was too wise to rush at a marriage.
And he must have had marriage in his mind almost ever since he had met her.
He must have made inquiries, have found out all about her, and then laid his plans.
Her looks had probably brought him for the first time to Garstin’s studio.
But it was not only his admiration for her appearance which had brought him there again and again, which had taught him detached self-control, almost distant respect, puzzling reserve, secrecy in intimacy, which had taught him to wait--till he knew.
And when he had not waited, when he had chosen to give way because the right moment had come, when he had made her go with him to his flat, when he had shown her what he wanted!
His warmth then had not been a pretending.
And yet, just before he had taken her in his arms, he had deliberately managed so that Mrs. Birchington should see her go into his flat.
What a horrible mingling of elements there was in this man!
Even his natural passions were intertwined with his hideous professional instincts The stretched-out hand of the lover was also the stretched-out hand of the thief.
When she heard the knock on her bedroom door she trembled.
“Yes?” she said, after a moment of hesitation.
She was up and was sitting in an arm-chair near the window having breakfast, and looking at her post.
“Yes?”

Another knock.
“Come in!” she cried.
The door was gingerly opened and a page-boy showed himself.
Miss Van Tuyn looked at him with dread.
“What is it?
Something for me?”

“There’s a gentleman wants to see you, ma’am.”

“I can’t see anyone.
I told them so at the bureau.
Where is he?”

“Down below, ma’am.”

“Send him away.
Say I’m still asleep.
Say--”

She noticed for the first time that the boy had a card.
He had been hiding it pressed to a salver against his trouser-leg.
Now he lifted the salver.
But Miss Van Tuyn did not take the card.
She was certain the man below was Arabian.
“I can’t see anyone.
It’s much too early.”

“The gentleman said it was very important, ma’am, and I was to say so,”  said the page, with a certain chubby dignity that was almost official.
Miss Van Tuyn was now terrified.
It was Arabian, and he would not go till he had seen her.
She was certain of that.
He would wait downstairs.
She would be a prisoner in her rooms.
All her fear of him seemed to rush upon her intensified, a fear such as she had never felt before.
She got up tingling all over, and with a feeling as if all the blood had suddenly sunk away from her temples.
“You must tell him--”

The page-boy was now holding out the salver with the card on it, almost as if in self-protection.
Her eyes fell on it against her will, and she saw there were four printed words on it.
On Arabian’s card there were only two: Nicolas Arabian.
Instantly she stretched out her hand and took the card up--

“General Sir Seymour Portman.”

Her relief was so great that she could not conceal it.
“Oh!” she exclaimed.
“Ma’am?” said the boy, looking more official.
“Please run down--”

“Run ma’am?”

“Yes--down at once and bring the gentleman up to my sitting-room.
Be as quick as you can.”

The page retired with a stiff back and rather slow-moving legs.
So Adela had wasted no time!
She had been as good as her word.
What a splendid woman she was!
Miss Van Tuyn did something to her gown, to her hair.
Not that she wanted to make an impression on Sir Seymour.
Circumstances were combining at present to drive her away from her vanity.
Really she acted mechanically.
Then she prepared to go to the sitting-room.
And then, at the bedroom door she hesitated, suddenly realizing what lay before her.
Finally she opened the door and listened.
She heard almost immediately another door opened and a boy’s chirpy voice say:

“This way, sir, please!”

Then she went out and came upon Sir Seymour Portman in the lobby.
“How very kind of you to come!” she said, with an attempt at eager cordiality but feeling now strangely shy and guilty.
“And so early!”

“Good morning!
May I put my hat here?”

“Yes, do.
And leave your coat.
Is it cold out?”

“Rather cold.”

“This is my little room.”

She went before him into the sitting-room which had a dreadfully early morning air, with its only just beginning fire, and its wintry dimness of the poor and struggling day.
“If only we could have met in the evening!” she thought.
It was awful to discuss such a situation as hers when the milkman had scarcely finished his rounds, and when her vitality had not been warmed up.
“Do sit down, Sir Seymour!” she said.
“Thank you!”

And he sat down in a businesslike sort of way, and at once began.
“Rather late last night I saw Lady Sellingworth.”

“Oh?
Yes?”

“She sent for me.
You know why, I understand.”

“Yes.
I had been with her.”

“She told me the whole matter.”

“Oh!
Did she?
I--I’ve been awfully foolish.
I deserve to--I deserve everything.
I know that.
Adela has been so good to me.
I can never say how good.
She might so easily have--I mean considering the way I have--”

She stopped.
Adela could not have told Sir Seymour about the unkindness of the girl she had sent him to help.
Miss Van Tuyn remembered that just in time.
“Lady Sellingworth did what you wished,” said Sir Seymour, still in a quiet and businesslike way, “and consulted me.
She told me what you wanted; that this man, Arabian, should be made to understand that he must finally give up any plans he had formed with regard to you.”

Miss Van Tuyn felt the red beginning to creep in her cheeks.
“Yes,” she said, looking down.
“Perhaps this can be done,” continued Sir Seymour, in a practical way, rather like a competent man at a board meeting.
“We must see.”

He did not suggest that she could do it herself.
She was thankful to him for that.
“Have you a photograph of this man?” he continued.
“Oh--no!”

“That is a pity.”

“But why do you want--”

“I should like to have his photograph to show at Scotland Yard.”

“Oh!” she exclaimed.
Her face was scarlet now.
Her forehead was burning.
An acute and horrible sense of shame possessed her, seemed to be wrapped round her like a stinging garment.
“I’ve--I’ve never had a photograph of him,” she said.
After a short pause Sir Seymour said:

“You’ve got his address.”

The words seemed a statement as he said them.
“Yes,” she said.
“Will you kindly write it down for me?”

“Yes.”

She got up, still wrapped up in shame, and went to the writing-table.
She took up a pen to write Arabian’s address.
But she could not remember the number of the flat.
Her memory refused to give it to her.
“I can’t remember the number,” she said, standing by the writing-table.
“If you can give me the address of the flats I can easily find out the number.”

“It is Rose Tree Gardens”--she began writing it down--“Rose Tree Gardens, Chelsea.
It is close to the river.”

She came away from the writing-table, and gave him the paper with the address on it.
“Thank you!”

He took the paper, folded it up, drew out a leather case from an inner pocket of his braided black jacket, and consigned the paper to it.
Miss Van Tuyn sat down again.
“I understand you met this man at the studio of Mr. Garstin, the painter?” said Sir Seymour.
“Yes.
But he wasn’t a friend of Mr. Garstin’s.
Mr. Garstin saw him at the Cafe Royal and wished to paint him, so he asked him to come to the studio.”

“And he has painted a portrait of him?”

“Yes.”

“Is it a good one?”

“Yes, wonderful!” she said, with a shudder.
“I mean really is it a good likeness?”

“Oh!
Yes, it is very like in a way, horribly like.”

“In a way?”

“I mean that it gives the worst side.
But it is like.”

“I suppose the portrait is still in Mr. Garstin’s studio?”

“I suppose it is.
I haven’t seen Mr. Garstin for two or three days.
But I suppose it’s there.”

“Please give me Mr. Garstin’s address--the studio address,” said Sir Seymour.
“Yes.”

She got up again and went to the writing-table.
There seemed to her to be something deadly in this interview.
She could not feel humanity in it.
Sir Seymour was terribly impersonal.
There was something almost machine like about him.
She did not know him well, but how different he had been to her in Berkeley Square!
There he had been a charming old courtier.
He had shown a sort of gallant admiration of her.
He had beamed kindly upon her youth and her daring.
Now he showed nothing.
But--Adela had told him!
She wrote down Dick Garstin’s address in Glebe Place, and was about to come away from the writing-table when Sir Seymour said:

“Could you also kindly give me your card with a line of introduction to Mr. Garstin?
I don’t know him.”

“Oh, I will of course!”

She found one of her cards and hesitated.
“What shall I put?” she asked.
“You might put ‘To introduce,’ and then my name.”

“Yes.”

She wrote the words on the card.
“Perhaps it might be as well to add ‘_Please see him_,’ and underline it.
I understand Mr. Garstin is a brusque sort of fellow.”

“Yes, he is.”

She added the words he had suggested.
“It’s very--it’s more than kind of you to take all this trouble,” she said, again coming to him.
“I am ashamed.”

She gave him the card.
She could not look into his face.
“I am ashamed,” she repeated, in a low voice.
“Well now,” he said, “try to get the matter off your mind.
Don’t give way to useless fears.
Most of us fear far more than there is any occasion for.”

He stood up.
“Yes?”

“If you wish for me, call me up.
I am at St. James’s Palace.
But I don’t suppose you will have need of me.
By the way, there’s one thing more I perhaps ought to ask you.
Forgive me!
Has there ever been anything in the nature of a threat from this fellow?”

“Oh, no!” she said.
“No, no, no!”

She was swallowing sobs that suddenly began rising in her throat, sobs of utter shame and of stricken vanity.
“It’s all too horrible!” she thought.
For a moment she hated the straight-backed, soldierly old man who was standing before her.
For he saw her in the dust, where no one ought ever to see her.
“He’s in love with me!” she said.
It was as if the words were forced out of her against her will.
Directly she had said them she bitterly regretted them.
They were the cry of her undying vanity that must try to put itself right, to stand up for itself at whatever cost.
Directly she had spoken them she saw a slight twitch pull the left side of his face upward.
It had upon her a moral effect.
She felt it as his irresistible comment--a comment of the body, but coming from elsewhere--on her and her nature, and her recent association with Arabian.
And suddenly her hatred died, and she longed to do something to establish herself in his regard, to gain his respect.
Already he was holding out his hand to her.
She took his hand and held it tightly.
“Don’t think too badly of me,” she said imploringly.
“I want you not to.
Because I think you see clearly--you see people as they are.
You saw Adela as she is.
And perhaps no one else did.
But you don’t know how fine she is--even you don’t.
I had treated her badly.
I had been unkind to her, very unkind.
I had--I had been spiteful to her, and tried to harm her happiness.
And yet she told me!
I am sure no other woman would ever have done what she has done.”

“She had to do it,” he said gravely.
But his hand now slightly pressed hers.
“_Had_ to?
But why?”

“Because she happens to be a thoroughbred.”

“Ah!” she breathed.
She was looking into his dark old eyes, and now they were kind, almost soft.
“We must take care,” he added, “that what she had done shall not be done in vain.
We owe her that.
Good-bye.”

“And you don’t think too badly about me?”

“Once I called you the daffodil girl to her.”

“Did you?”

“Youth is pretty cruel sometimes.
When you’ve forgotten all this, don’t forget to be kind.”

“To her!
But how could I?”

“But I don’t mean only to her!”

And then he left her.
When he had gone she sat still for a long while, thinking.
And the strange thing was that for once she was not thinking about herself.
CHAPTER XII

Rather late in the afternoon of the same day, towards half-past five, Dick Garstin, who was alone in his studio upstairs smoking a pipe and reading Delacroix’s “Mon Journal,” heard his door bell ring.
He was stretched out on a divan, and he lay for a moment without moving, puffing at his pipe with the book in his hand.
Then he heard the bell again, and got up.
Arabian’s portrait stood on its easel in the middle of the room.
Garstin glanced at it as he went toward the stairs.
Since the day when he had shown it for the first time to Beryl Van Tuyn and Arabian he had not seen either of them.
Nor had he had a word from them.
This had not troubled him.
Already he was at work on another sitter, a dancer in the Russian ballet, talented, decadent, impertinent, and, so Garstin believed, marked out for early death in a madhouse--altogether quite an interesting study.
But now, looking at Arabian’s portrait, Garstin thought:

“Probably the man himself.
I knew he would come back, and we should have a battle.
Now for it!”

And he smiled as he went striding downstairs.
But when he opened the door he found standing outside in the foggy darkness a tall, soldierly old man, with an upright figure, white hair, and moustache, a lined red face and dark eyes which looked straight into his.
“Who are you, sir?” said Garstin.
“And what do you want?”

“Are you Mr. Dick Garstin?” said the old man.
“Or rather, elderly,” Garstin now said to himself, glancing sharply over his visitor’s strong, lean frame and broad shoulders.
“Yes, I am.”

The stranger opened a leather case and took out a card.
“Perhaps you will kindly read that.”

Garstin took the card.
“Beryl!” he said.
“What’s up?”

And he read: “To introduce Sir Seymour Portman, _please see him_.
B. V. T.”

“Are you Sir Seymour Portman?”

“Yes.”

“Come in.”

Sir Seymour stepped in.
“Take off your coat?”

“If you’ll allow me.
I won’t keep you long.”

“The longer the better!” said Garstin with offhand heartiness.
He had taken a liking to his visitor at first sight.
“A damned fine old chap!” had been his instant mental comment on seeing Sir Seymour.
“A fellow to swear by!”

“Come upstairs.
I’ll show you the way,” he added.
He tramped up and Sir Seymour followed him.
“I do most of my painting here,” said Garstin.
“Sit down.
Have a cigar.”

“Thank you very much, but I won’t smoke,” said Sir Seymour, looking round casually at the portraits in the room before sitting down and crossing his right leg over his left leg.
“And I won’t take up your time for more than a few minutes.”

At this moment he noticed at some distance the portrait of Arabian on its easel, and he put up his eyeglasses.
Then he moved.
“Will you allow me to look at that portrait over there?” he asked.
“Rather!
It’s the last thing I’ve done, and not so bad either!”

Sir Seymour got up and went to stand in front of the portrait.
He was puzzled, and his face showed that; he frowned and pursed his lips, bending forward.
“This is a portrait of a man called Arabian, isn’t it?” he said at length, turning round to Garstin.
“Yes.
D’you know the fellow?”

“I haven’t that--privilege,” replied Sir Seymour with an extraordinarily dry intonation.
“But I must have seen him somewhere.”

“About town.
He’s been here some time.”

“But he’s altered!” said Sir Seymour, still looking hard at the portrait.
“I’m not a photographer, you know!”

“A photographer!” said Sir Seymour, who was something of a connoisseur in painting, and had a few good specimens of the Barbizon School in his apartment at St. James’s Palace.
“No.
This isn’t a photograph in paint.
It’s a”--he gazed again at the portrait--“it’s a masterly study of a remarkable and hideous personality.”

“Hideous!” said Garstin sharply.
“Yes, hideous,” said Sir Seymour grimly.
“An abominable face!
Ah!”

He had been bending, but now pulled himself up.
“I saw that man at the Ritz Hotel a good many years ago,” he said.
“I was giving a lunch.
He was lunching close by with--let me see--an old woman, yes, in a rusty black wig.
Someone spoke to me about him, and I--, Yes!
I remember it all perfectly.
But he looked much younger then.
It must be over ten years ago.
I spotted him at once as a shady character.
One would, of course.
But you have brought it all to the surface in some subtle way.
Does he like it?”

“To tell the truth I don’t believe he does.”

“I wish to speak to you about that man.”

“Sit down again.
Have a whisky?”

“No, thanks.”

“What is it?
Are the police after him?”

“I’m not aware of it.”

“I know everything about him, as you see”--he shot out an arm towards the portrait--“and nothing.
I picked him up at the Cafe Royal.
He’s a magnificent specimen.”

“No doubt.
What I want to know is whether you will allow me to bring two or three people here to see this portrait?
I’m doing this--I’m here now, and want to come here again, if you are so kind as to allow me--”

“Always jolly glad to see you!” interjected Garstin, with a sort of gruff heartiness.
“Thank you!
I’m doing this for your friend, Miss Beryl Van Tuyn.”

“Ha!” said Garstin.
“I don’t think I need to go into the matter further than to say that she does not wish to have anything more to do with this Mr. Arabian.”

“Oh, she’s found him out at last, has she, and put you up to--”

Garstin paused.
Then he added:

“It’s like Beryl’s cheek to ask a man of your type to interfere in such a matter.
Fellows like Arabian are hardly in your line.”

“Oh, I’ve had to deal with men of all classes.”

“And quite able to, I should say.
So Beryl’s had enough of that chap?”

“Mr.
Garstin, I am going to be frank with you, frank to this extent.
Arabian is a blackguard.”

“No news to me!”

“Miss Van Tuyn can have no further acquaintance with him, and I am going to do my best to see to that.
But I believe this fellow is very persistent.”

“I should say so.
He’s a hard nut to crack.
You may depend on that.”

“And therefore strong measures may be necessary.”

“Whom do you want to bring here to look at my stuff?”

“Two or three officials from Scotland Yard.”

Garstin uttered the thrush’s song through half-closed lips.
“That’s it!
Well, you can bring them along whenever you like.”

“Thank you.
They may not be art experts, but they, or one of them, may possibly be useful for my purpose.”

“Right you are!
So you know something definite about the fellow?”

“Yes.”

“Don’t bother yourself!
I don’t want to know what it is,” snapped out Garstin abruptly.
Sir Seymour smiled, and it was almost what Lady Sellingworth called his “beaming” smile.
He got up and held out his hand.
“Thank you,” he said.
Garstin gave him a strong grip.
“Glad I’ve met you!” he said.
“Beryl’s done me a good turn.”

“Perhaps you will allow me to say--though I’m no expert, and my opinion may therefore have no value in your eyes--but you’ve painted a portrait such as one very seldom sees nowadays.”

“D’you mean you think it’s fine?”

“Very fine!
Wonderful!”

Garstin’s usually hard face softened in an extraordinary way.
“Your opinion goes down in my memory in red letters.”

Sir Seymour turned to go.
As he did so he cast a look round the studio, which suggested to Garstin that he would perhaps like to examine the other portraits dotted about on easels and hanging on the walls.
A faint reddish line appeared in the painter’s shaven blue cheeks.
“Not worth your while!” he almost muttered.
“Eh?” said Sir Seymour.
“A lot of decadent stuff.
I’ve been choosing my models badly.
But--” he paused, looking almost diffident for a moment.
“Yes?” said Sir Seymour.
“Perhaps, if we ever get to know each other a bit better, you’d let me have a shy at you for a change?”

“That would be an honour,” said Sir Seymour with a touch of his very simple, courtly manner.
“In return you know for my letting in the detectives!” said Garstin, with a laugh.
“Hulloh!”

He had heard the bell ring downstairs.
“If it’s our man!” he said, instinctively lowering his voice.
“Arabian!
Are you expecting him?”

“No.
But it’s just as likely as not.
Want to meet him?”

“I can hardly say that!” said Sir Seymour, looking suddenly, Garstin thought, remarkably like a very well-bred ramrod.
“Well, then--”

“But it may be necessary.” He hesitated obviously, then added: “If it should be Arabian by chance, perhaps it would be as well if I did see him.”

“Just as you like.”

“I’ll stay if you will allow me,” said Sir Seymour, with sudden decision, like a man who had just overcome something.
The bell rang again.
“Can you act?” said Garstin, quickly.
“Sufficiently, I dare say,” said Sir Seymour, with a very faint and grim smile.
“Then you’d better!
He can!”

And Garstin sprang down the stairs.
Two or three minutes later Arabian walked into the studio with Garstin just behind him.
When he saw Sir Seymour a slight look of surprise came into his face, and he half turned towards Garstin as if in inquiry.
Sir Seymour realized that Garstin had not mentioned that there was a visitor in the studio.
“A friend of mine, Sir Seymour Portman,” said Garstin.
“Mr.
Nicolas Arabian!”

Arabian bowed and said formally:

“Very glad to meet you.”

Sir Seymour bowed, and said:

“Thanks.”

“Sit down, my boy!” said Garstin, with sudden heartiness, laying a hand on Arabian’s shoulder.
“And I know you’ll put your lips to a whisky.”

“Thank you,” said Arabian.
And he sat down in a deep arm-chair.
Sir Seymour saw his brown eyes, for a moment hard and inquiring, rest upon the visitor he had not expected to find, and wondered whether Arabian remembered having seen him before.
If so Arabian would also remember that he, Seymour, was a friend of Adela Sellingworth, who had been with him at the Ritz on that day ten years ago.
“Say how much,” said Garstin, coming up with the whisky.
Sir Seymour noticed that Arabian took a great deal of the spirit and very little soda-water with it.
Directly his glass was filled--it was a long glass--he drank almost greedily.
“A cigar?” said Garstin.
“But I know without asking.”

“I do not refuse,” said Arabian.
And Sir Seymour hated his voice, while realizing that it was agreeable, perhaps even seductive.
“There!
Now we’re cozy!” said Garstin.
“But I wish Sir Seymour you’d join us!”

“If you will allow me I will smoke a light cigar I have here.”

And Sir Seymour drew out a cigar-case and lit up a pale and long Havannah.
“That’s better!” said Garstin, drinking.
“How’s Beryl, my boy?”

“I have not seen Miss Van Tuyn to-day,” said Arabian.
“But I hope to see her to-morrow.”

He looked at Sir Seymour, and there seemed to be a flicker of suspicion in his eyes.
“DO you know Miss Van Tuyn?” he asked.
“Very slightly,” said Sir Seymour.
“I have met her once or twice in London.
She is a very beautiful creature.”

There was constraint in the room.
Sir Seymour felt it strongly and feared that it came from something in him.
Evidently he was not a very good actor.
He found it difficult to be easy and agreeable with a man whom he longed to get hold of by the collar and thrash till it was time to hand him over to the police.
But he resolved to make a strong effort to conceal what he could not conquer.
And he began to talk to Arabian.
Afterwards he could not remember what they had talked about just then.
He could only remember the strangeness which he had realized as he sat there smoking his Havannah, the strangeness of life.
That he should be smoking and chatting with the scoundrel who had changed Adela’s existence, who had tricked her, robbed her, driven her into the solitude which had lasted ten years!
And why was he doing it?
He did not absolutely know.
But his instinct had told him to stay on in Garstin’s studio when everything else in him, revolting, had shrunk from meeting this beast, unless and until he could deal with him properly.
He had smoked about half his cigar, and the constraint in the room seemed to him to be lessened, though not abolished, when the conversation took a turn quite unexpected by him.
And all that was said in the studio from that moment remained firmly fixed in his memory.
Garstin got up to fetch some more whisky for Arabian, whose glass was now empty, and as he came back with the decanter he said to Arabian:

“Sir Seymour’s had a good look at your portrait, Arabian.”

“Indeed!” said Arabian.
“And he thinks it’s damn fine.
As I’m giving it to you, I thought you’d like to know that it’s appreciated.”

There was an unmistakably malicious expression on Garstin’s face as he spoke, and his small eyes travelled quickly from Arabian to Sir Seymour.
“In fact,” added Garstin, lifting the decanter to pour the whisky into Arabian’s glass, “Sir Seymour is so pleased with my work that I shouldn’t wonder if he lets me paint him.”

“Ah!” said Arabian, looking at Sir Seymour, with a sudden hard intensity which strangely transformed his face, “this is good news.
I am pleased.
But--thank you!” (to Garstin who poured out some more whisky) “that will do, please!
But you are not afraid of the drawback?”

“What drawback?” asked Sir Seymour.
“Mr.
Dick Garstin makes us all look like _canaille_!”

“Indeed!”

“But have you not noticed this?” said Arabian.
And the agreeable softness of his voice altered, giving way to an almost rasping quality of sound.
He put down his glass and got up, with a lithe and swift movement that seemed somehow menacing.
It was so light, so agile, so noiseless and controlled.
“Surely you have.
Please, look at all these!”

He made a sweeping circular movement with his arm.
Sir Seymour got on his feet.
“Do you not see?
There is the same thing in all.
We are all placed by Mr. Dick Garstin in the same boat.
Even the judge, he is there too.
Look!”

Sir Seymour looked from canvas to canvas and then at Arabian.
“Well?” said Arabian, still in the rasping voice.
“Do I say true?
Are we not all turned into _canaille_ by Dick Garstin?”

Sir Seymour did not answer.
“With you if you are painted,” continued Arabian, “it will be the same.
Dick Garstin must see bad in us all.”

He laughed and his laugh was oddly shrill and ugly.
“It is an _idee fixe_,” he said.
“You see, I am frank.
I say what I think, Dick Garstin.”

“No objection to that!” said Garstin, with a mischievous smile.
“But if you don’t like your picture you won’t want to have it.
So let us consider our bargain cancelled.”

“Oh, no,” said Arabian, “the picture is mine.”

“The bargain we made,” said Garstin, turning to Sir Seymour, “was this: Mr. Arabian was to be kind enough to sit to me on two conditions.
One was in my favour, the other in his.”

“I beg your pardon!” said Arabian sharply.
But Garstin continued inflexibly:

“I was to have the right to exhibit the picture, and, after that, I was to hand it over as a present to Arabian.”

“No, that was not the bargain, please!” said Arabian.
“Not the bargain?” said Garstin, with an air of humorous surprise.
“Oh, no.
You kindly said that if I gave up my time to you, as I have done, very much of my time, you would give me the picture when it was finished.
That was the bargain between us.
But I did not say I would allow you to exhibit my picture.”

“But I told you before I ever put a smudge of paint on the canvas that I should want to exhibit it.”

“That is quite true.”

“Well, then?”

“Two must speak to make a bargain.
Is it not so?” He spoke to Sir Seymour.
“I presume so,” said the latter, very solemnly.
He had realized that this odd scene had been brought about deliberately, and perhaps by both of the men who stood before him.
Garstin had certainly started it, but Arabian had surely with purpose, taken the cue from Garstin.
“Ah!
You hear!”

“I do!” said Garstin, composedly.
“Well, Dick Garstin, I did not say I would permit my picture to be exhibited by you.
And that was on purpose.
I intended to wait until I saw how you would make me appear.
I have waited.
There I am!” He pointed to the portrait.
“It is fine, perhaps, as you say.
But I do not choose that people should see that and be told, ‘That is Nicolas Arabian.’ I do not give you permission to show that portrait.”

“You don’t like it?”

“You have made of me a beast.
That is what I say.”

“Sorry you think so!
But what’s to be done?
That picture is worth from eight hundred to a thousand pounds at the very least.
You don’t suppose I am going to give it to you without letting the people who care about my stuff have a look at it?
Why, where is your sense of fairness, my boy?”

“I do not know really what you mean by that!”

“Well, I ask you, Sir Seymour, would it be fair that I should have all my trouble for nothing?
He can have the picture.
But I want my _kudos_.
Eh?”

“I quite understand that,” said Sir Seymour, calmly.
Arabian turned round and faced him.
And as he did so Sir Seymour said to himself:

“The fellow’s been drinking heavily.”

This thought had not occurred in his mind till this moment, but he felt certain that Garstin’s sharp eyes had noticed the fact sooner, probably directly they had seen Arabian at the street door.
No doubt the very stiff whisky-and-soda Arabian had just drunk had made it more obvious.
Anyhow, Sir Seymour had no doubt at all about it now.
It was not noticeable in Arabian’s face.
But his manner began to show it to the experienced eyes of the old campaigner.
“But, please, do you understand my feeling?
Would you like to be made what you are not--a beast?”

Sir Seymour saw Garstin, perhaps with difficulty, shutting off a smile.
“I can’t say I should,” he answered, with absolute gravity.
“Would you,” pursued Arabian, apparently in desperate earnest, “would you allow a picture of you like this to be shown to all your friends?”

“I think,” returned Sir Seymour, still with an absolute and simple gravity, “that I should object to that--strongly.”

“You hear!” said Arabian to Garstin.
“It is your friend who says this.”

“I can’t help that,” said Garstin, totally unperturbed.
“I’m going to exhibit that picture.”

“No!
No!” said Arabian.
And as he spoke he suddenly bared his teeth.
Garstin, without making any rejoinder to this almost brutally forcible exclamation, which was full of violent will, thrust a hand into his waistcoat pocket and pulled out a big gold watch.
“I say, I’m awfully sorry,” he said, with a swift glance at Sir Seymour, which the latter did not miss, “but I must turn you both out.
I’m dining at the Arts Club to-night.
Jinks--you know the Slade Jinks--is coming to pick me up.
You’ll forgive me, Sir Seymour?”

His voice was unusually gentle as he said the last words.
“Of course.
I’ve stayed an unconscionable time.
Are you going my way, Mr. Arabian?”

Garstin’s mouth twitched.
Before Arabian could reply, Garstin said:

“Look here, Arabian!”

“Yes--please?” said Arabian.
“You and I differ pretty badly about this business of your damned portrait.”

“Ah, yes!”

“Sir Seymour’s a just man, a very just man.
Let’s hear what he has to say.”

“But you tell us you have no time!”

“Exactly!
Jinks you know!
He’s a devil for punctuality.
They set the clocks by him at the Slade!
But _you_--”

“Yes?”

“Talk it over with Sir Seymour.
Get his unbiased verdict.
And let me hear from you any time to-morrow.
He’ll say what’s fair and square.
I know that.”

While speaking he went towards the head of the stairs, followed by Sir Seymour and Arabian.
As Arabian passed the place where the whisky stood he picked up his glass and drunk it off at a gulp.
A minute later Sir Seymour and he were out in the night together.
CHAPTER XIII

“Which way do you go, please?” asked Arabian.
“I’ll go your way if you like.
I live in St. James’s Palace.
But I’m in no hurry.
Do you live in my direction?”

“Oh, no.
I live quite near in Chelsea.”

“I can walk to your door then if you don’t mind having my company,” said Sir Seymour.
“Thank you!”

And they walked on together in silence.
Sir Seymour wondered what was passing in the mind of the man beside him.
He felt sure that Arabian had been at first suspicious of him in the studio.
Had he been able by his manner to lull that suspicion to rest?
He was inclined to believe so.
But it was impossible for him to be sure.
After two or three minutes of silence he spoke again.
But he made no allusion to the recent scene in the studio, or to Garstin’s parting words.
His instinct counselled silence on that point.
So he talked of London, the theatres, the affairs of the day, trying to seem natural, like a man of the world with a casual acquaintance.
He noticed that Arabian’s answers and comments were brief.
Sometimes when he did speak he spoke at random.
It was obvious that he was preoccupied.
He seemed to Sir Seymour to be brooding darkly over something.
This state of things continued until they reached Rose Tree Gardens.
“This is it,” said Arabian, stopping before the big porch.
Sir Seymour stopped, too, hesitated, then said:

“I’ll say good night to you.”

Arabian shot a piercing and morose glance at him, moved his right hand as if about to extend it, dropped it and said:

“Well, but we have not spoken any more about my picture!”

“No.”

“Dick Garstin said you would decide.”

“Scarcely that--was it?”

“But I think it was.”

“Well, but it’s really not my affair.”

“But he made it so.”

“Perhaps.
But you didn’t say--”

“But I should like to know what you think.”

“Very good of you.
But I’m an outsider.
I wasn’t there when you made what you say was a bargain.”

“No, but--”

Again he sent a piercing glance to Sir Seymour, who received it with absolute sangfroid, and stood looking completely detached, firm and simple.
At that moment Sir Seymour felt positive that a struggle was going on in Arabian in which the drink he had taken was playing a part.
The intensely suspicious nature of the enemy of society, always on the alert, because always liable to be in danger, was at odds with the demon that steals away the wits of men, unchains their recklessness, unlocks their tongues, uncovers often their most secret inclinations.
Arabian was hesitating.
At that moment the least thing would turn him one way or the other, would prompt him to give himself to the intense caution which was probably natural to him, or would drive him to the incaution which he would regret when he was physically normal again.
It seemed to Sir Seymour that he knew this, and that he had it in his power just then to turn the scale, to make it drop to whichever side he wished.
And as Arabian hesitated at that moment so Sir Seymour hesitated too.
He longed to get away from the man, to have done with him forever.
But he had put his hand to a task.
He had here an opportunity.
Garstin had certainly given it to him deliberately.
It would be weak not to take advantage of it.
He was not accustomed to yield to his weak inclinations, and he resolved not to do so now.
He was sure that if he showed the least sign of wishing to push himself into Arabian’s affairs the man would recoil at once, in spite of the drink which was slightly, but definitely, clouding his perceptions.
So he took the contrary course.
He forced himself to hold out his hand to the beast, and said:

“Well--good-night!”

But Arabian did not take his hand.
“Oh, but please come in for a moment!” he said.
“Why go away?”

“It’s getting late.”

“But I will not keep you long.
Dick Garstin said you should judge between us, that I was to come to-morrow and tell him.
I know you will say I have the right.
Come up.
I will explain to you.”

“Very well,” said Sir Seymour, with apparent reluctance, “but really I must not stay long.”

“No, no!
You are very good.
It is not your business.
But really it is important.
Here!
We will take the elevator.”

As he got into the lift Sir Seymour wondered whether he would have tricked Arabian if the latter had not been drinking.
While the lift was going swiftly and smoothly up he decided that before he came down in it he would make quite plain to Arabian why he had been to Dick Garstin’s studio that day.
The opportunity which was given to him he would take advantage of to the full.
If only he could strike a blow for Adela instead of for Miss Van Tuyn!
But Adela had let this brute go.
And could she have done anything else?
For she had had her own folly to be afraid of.
But all that was ten years ago.
And now--She was different now!
He reiterated that to himself as he stood in the lift almost touching Arabian.
Adela was quite different now.
She had given herself to the best that was in her.
“Here it is!”

The lift had stopped.
They got out on a landing, and Arabian put a key into a door.
“Do please take off your coat.
It is all warm in here!”

“Yes, and some brute’s been burning scent in a shovel!” thought Sir Seymour, as he stepped into the flat.
“I think I’ll keep my coat,” he said.
“I shan’t be staying long.”

“Oh, if you are in such a hurry!” said Arabian, with sudden moody irritation.
He shut the door with a bang.
In the electric light he looked tired and menacing.
At least Sir Seymour thought so.
But the light in the little hall was shaded and not very strong.
“You will be much too hot truly!” said Arabian.
“Then I’ll leave my coat,” said Sir Seymour.
And he took it off, laid it on a chair and went into a room on the left, the door of which Arabian held open.
“This is my salon.
I take the flat furnished.
The river is there.”

He pointed towards the windows now covered by curtains.
“Please sit down by the fire.
I will explain.
I know you will be on my side.”

He pressed a bell on the right of the mantelpiece.
Almost instantaneously the door was opened and a thin man--who looked about thirty, Sir Seymour thought--showed himself.
He had a very dark narrow face and curiously light-grey eyes.
Arabian spoke to him in Spanish.
He listened, motionless, turned and went softly out.
“You must have a little whisky with me!” said Arabian.
“No, thank you!”

“But--why not?”

“I never take it at this time.”

“Well, I must have some.
I have got a cold.
This climate in winter--it is awful!”

He shook his broad shoulders and blinked rapidly several times, then suddenly opened his eyes very wide and yawned.
“Well now!” he said.
“But please sit down.”

Sir Seymour sat down.
Arabian stood with his back to the fire and his hands thrust into his trouser pockets.
Sir Seymour noticed what a magnificently made man he was.
He had certainly been endowed with physical gifts for the undoing of women.
But his brown face, strikingly handsome though it undoubtedly was, had the hard stamp of vice on it.
Long ago at a first glance Sir Seymour had seen that this man was a wrong ‘un, and now, as he looked at Arabian, he found himself wondering how anyone could fail to see that.
“Now I will tell you exactly,” Arabian said.
And he explained carefully and lucidly enough--though through occasional yawns--what had happened between Garstin and himself.
He did not mention Miss Van Tuyn’s name.
As he was getting towards the end of his narrative his servant came in with a tray on which were bottles and glasses.
He said nothing and Arabian said nothing to him, but went on talking and did not appear to notice him.
But directly he had gone Arabian poured out some whisky, added a little soda and drank it.
“There!
That is how we did!” he said at last.
And he dropped softly, with an odd lightness, into a chair near Sir Seymour, and nodded:

“Now, have I not the right over the picture?
Can I not send to-morrow and take it away?
Is it not just?”

“Just!” said Sir Seymour.
“Do you care so much about justice?”

“Eh?” said Arabian, suddenly leaning forward in his chair.
“What is that?”

The bitter sarcasm which Sir Seymour had not been able to keep out of his voice had evidently startled Arabian.
“You are English,” he said, as Sir Seymour said nothing.
“Do you not care that a stranger in your country should have justice?”

“Oh, yes.
I care very much about that.”

The intense dryness of the voice that answered evidently made an impression on Arabian.
For he fixed his eyes on his guest with intense and hard inquiry, and laid his brown hands on the arms of his chair, as if in readiness for something.
But he only said:

“Well--please?”

Sir Seymour’s inclination was to get up.
But he did not obey it.
He sat without moving, and returned Arabian’s stare with a firm, soldier’s gaze.
The fearlessness of his eyes was absolute, unflinching.
“I thoroughly understand why you don’t want Mr. Garstin to show people that picture,” he said.
“Ah!”

“The biggest fool in creation, if he saw it, would understand.”

“Understand what--please?”

“Understand you.”

“Pardon!” said Arabian sharply.
“What do you mean?”

He was up.
But Sir Seymour sat still.
“Mr.
Garstin uncovered your secret,” he said.
“A man such as you are naturally objects to that.”

“What have you come here for?” said Arabian.
“You asked me to come.”

“What did you go to Dick Garstin for?”

“That is my business.”

Sir Seymour got up slowly, very deliberately even, from his chair.
“My secret, you say.
What do you know about me?”

In the voice there was intense suspicion.
“We needn’t discuss that.
I am not going to discuss it.”

“What did you go to Dick Garstin for?”

“I went to ask him if he would allow me to bring two or three people to his studio to look at his portrait of you.”

“My portrait!
What is my portrait to you?
Why should you bring people?”

But Sir Seymour did not answer the question.
Instead he put one hand on the mantelpiece, leaned slightly towards Arabian, and said:

“You wanted my verdict on the rights of the case between you and Mr. Garstin.
That isn’t my affair.
You must fight it out between you.
But I should seriously advise you not to take too long over the quarrel.
You said just now that the English climate was awful.
Get out of it as soon as you can.”

“Get out of it!
What is it to you whether I stay or go?”

“I’m afraid if you delay here much longer you may be sorry for it.”

“Who are you?” said Arabian fiercely.
“I’m a friend of Miss Van Tuyn.”

“What has that to do with me?
Why do you try to interfere with me?”

“Miss Van Tuyn--I saw her this morning--wishes me to see to it that you leave her alone, get out of her life.”

“Are you her father, a relation?”

“No.”

“Then what have you to do with it?
You--you impertinent old man!”

Sir Seymour’s brick-red, weather-beaten face took on a darker, almost a purplish, hue, and the hand that had been holding the mantelpiece tightened into a fist.
“You will leave this young lady alone,” he said sternly.
“Do you hear?
You will leave her alone.
She knows what you are.”

Arabian had pushed out his full under-lip and was staring now intently at Sir Seymour.
His gaze was intense, and yet there was a cloudy look in his eyes.
The effect of what he had drunk was certainly increasing upon him in the heat of the rather small room.
“When I came into the studio,” he said after a moment’s silence, “I remembered your face, and, ‘Why is he here?’ That was my thought.
Why is he there?
Where did I see you?”

“That doesn’t matter.
You will give up your acquaintance with Miss Van Tuyn.
You will get out of London.
And then no measures will be taken against you.”

“Where was it?” persisted Arabian.
“Do you remember me?”

“Yes,” said Sir Seymour.
He debated within himself for an instant, and then took a decision.
“I saw you at the Ritz Hotel in Piccadilly ten years or more ago.”

“At the Ritz!”

“I was lunching with a friend.
I was lunching with Lady Sellingworth.”

“Ah!” exclaimed Arabian.
“That was it!
I remember.
So--_she_ sent--I see!
I see!”

He half shut his eyes and a vein in his forehead swelled, giving to his brow a look of violence.
“She has--She has--”

He shut his mouth with a snap of the teeth.
Sir Seymour was aware of a struggle taking place in him.
Something, urged on by drink, was fighting hard with his natural caution.
But the caution, long trained, no doubt, and kept in almost perpetual use, was fighting hard too.
“No one sent me,” said Sir Seymour with contempt.
“But that’s no matter.
You understand now that you are to leave this young lady alone.
Her acquaintance with you has ceased.
It won’t be renewed.
If you call on her you will be sent off.
If you write to her your letters will be burnt without being read.
If you try to persecute her in any way means will be found to protect her and to punish you.
I shall see to that.”

Arabian’s mouth was still tightly shut and he was standing quite still and seemed to be thinking, or trying to think, deeply.
For his eyes now had a curiously inward look.
If Sir Seymour had expected a burst of rage as the sequel to his very plain speaking he was deceived.
Apparently this man was serenely beyond that society in which a human being can be insulted and resent it.
Or else had he been thinking with such intensity that he had not even heard what had just been said to him?
For a moment Sir Seymour was inclined to believe so.
And he was about to reiterate what he had said, to force it on Arabian’s attention, when the latter stopped him.
“Yes--yes!” he said.
“I hear!
Do not!”

He seemed to be turning something over in his mind with complete self-possession under the eyes of the man who had just scornfully attacked him.
At last he said:

“I fear I was rude just now.
You startled me.
I said it was impertinence.
But I see, I understand now.
The women--they are clever.
And when age comes--ah, we have no longer much defence against them.”

And he smiled.
“What d’you mean?” said Sir Seymour, longing to knock the fellow down, and feeling an almost insuperable difficulty in retaining his self-control.
“This I mean!
You say you come to me sent by Miss Van Tuyn.
But I say--no!
You come to me sent by Lady Sellingworth.”

Sir Seymour was startled.
Was the fellow so brazen that he was going to allude to what had happened over ten years ago?
That seemed incredible, but with such a man perhaps everything was possible.
“It is like this!” continued Arabian, in a suave and explanatory voice.
“Lady Sellingworth she hates Miss Van Tuyn.
They have quarrelled about a young man.
His name is Craven.
I have met him in a restaurant.
I dine there with Miss van Tuyn.
He dines there that night with Lady Sellingworth, who is in love with him, as old women are with nice-looking boys, and--”

“Hold your tongue, you infernal blackguard!”

“Miss Van Tuyn calls Craven to us, and Lady Sellingworth is so jealous that she runs out of the restaurant, so that he is obliged to follow her and leave Miss Van Tuyn--”

“You damned ruffian!” said Sir Seymour.
His face was congested with anger.
He put out his arm as if he were going to seize Arabian by the collar of his jacket.
For once in his life he “saw red”; for once he was forced by indignation into saying something he would never have said had he given himself time to think.
He was carried away by impulse like a youth in spite of his years, of his white hair, of his immense natural self-control.
Arabian moved backwards with a swift, wary movement.
Sir Seymour did not follow him.
He stood where he was and said again:

“You damned ruffian!
If you don’t get out of the country I’ll set the police on you.”

“Indeed!
What for, please?”

“For stealing Lady Sellingworth’s jewels in Paris ten years ago!”

Arabian bared his teeth like an animal and half shut his eyes.
There was a strange look about his temples, as if under the deep brown of his skin something had gone suddenly white.
“Miss Van Tuyn knows that you stole them!”

Arabian drew in his breath sharply.
His mouth opened wide.
Sir Seymour turned and went out of the room.
He shut the door behind him.
In the little scented hall he caught up his coat and hat.
He heard a door click.
The dark man with the light grey eyes showed himself.
“Keep away, you!” said Sir Seymour.
The man stood where he was, and Sir Seymour went out of the flat.
CHAPTER XIV

When Sir Seymour was going out of the main hall of the building in which Arabian lived a taxicab happened to drive up.
A man got out of it and paid the chauffeur.
Sir Seymour made a sign to the chauffeur, who jerked his head and said:

“Yes, sir.”

“Drive me to Claridge’s Hotel, please,” said Sir Seymour.
He got into the taxicab and was soon away in the night.
When he reached the hotel he went to the bureau and inquired if Miss Van Tuyn was at home.
The man at the bureau, who knew him well, said that she was in, that she had not been out all day.
He would inquire at once if she was at home to visitors.
As he spoke he looked at Sir Seymour with an air of discreet interest.
After a moment at the telephone he asked Sir Seymour to go upstairs, and called a page-boy to accompany him and show him the way.
“Henriques,” said Sir Seymour, pausing as he was about to follow the page.
“You’re a discreet fellow, I know.”

“I hope so, Sir Seymour.”

“If by chance a man called Arabian should come here, while I am upstairs, get rid of him, will you?
I am speaking on Miss Van Tuyn’s behalf and with her authority.”

“I won’t let the gentleman up, Sir Seymour.”

“Has he called to-day?”

“Yes, Sir Seymour.
He called early this afternoon.
I had orders to say Miss Van Tuyn and Miss Cronin were both out.
He wrote a note downstairs which was sent up.”

“He may call again at any time.
Get rid of him.”

“Yes, Sir Seymour.”

“Thanks.
I rely on your discretion.”

And Sir Seymour went towards the lift, where the page-boy was waiting.
Miss Van Tuyn met him at the threshold of her sitting-room.
She was very pale.
She greeted him eagerly.
“How good of you to call again!
Do come in.
I haven’t stirred.
I haven’t been out all day.”

She shut the sitting-room door.
“_He_ has been here!”

“So I heard.”

“How?
Who has--”

“I ventured to speak to Henriques, the young man at the bureau, before coming up.
I know him quite well.
I took it on myself to give an order on your behalf.”

“That he wasn’t to be allowed to come up?”

“Yes.
I told Henriques to get rid of him.”

“Oh, thank you!
Thank you!
I’ve been in misery all day thinking at every moment that he might open my door and walk in.”

“They won’t let him up.”

“But they mightn’t happen to see him.
If there were many people in the hall he might pass by unnoticed and--”

“In a hotel of this type people don’t pass by unnoticed.
You need not be afraid.”

“But I am horribly afraid.
I can’t help it.
And it’s so dreadful not daring to move.
It’s--it’s like living in a nightmare!”

“Come, Miss Van Tuyn!” said Sir Seymour, and in his voice and manner there was just a hint of the old disciplinarian, “pull yourself together.
You’re not helpless, and you’ve got friends.”

“Oh, do forgive me!
I know I have.
But there’s something so absolutely hideous in feeling like this about a man who--whom I--”

She broke off, and sat down on a sofa abruptly, almost as if her limbs had given way under her.
“I quite understand that.
I’ve just been with the fellow.”

Miss Van Tuyn started up.
“You’ve seen him?”

“Yes.”

“Where?
Here?”

“I went to Mr. Garstin’s studio to have a look at the portrait and say a word to him.
While I was there Arabian called.
I stayed on and sat with him for some time.
Afterwards I walked with him to the building where he is living temporarily and went in.”

“Went in?
_You_ went into his flat!”

“As I say.”

Miss Van Tuyn looked at him without speaking.
Her expression showed intense astonishment, amounting almost to incredulity.
“I had it out with him,” said Sir Seymour grimly, after a pause.
“And in the heat of the moment I told him something which I had not intended to tell him, which I had not meant to speak of at all.”

“What?
What?”

“I told him I knew about the theft of ten years ago.”

“Oh!”

“And I told him also that you knew about it.”

“That I--oh!
How did he take it?
What did he say?”

“I didn’t wait to hear.
The flat was--well--scented, and I wanted to get out of it.”

His face expressed such a stern and acute disgust that Miss Van Tuyn’s eyes dropped beneath his.
“You may think--it would be natural to think that the fact of my having told the man about your knowledge of his crime would prevent him from ever attempting to see you again,” Sir Seymour continued, “but I don’t feel sure of that.”

“You think that even after that he might--”

“I’ll be frank with you.
I can’t tell what he might or might not do.
He may follow my suggestion--”

“What did you--”

“I suggested to him that he had better clear out of the country at once.
It’s quite possible that he may take my view and go, but in case he doesn’t, and tries to bother you any more--”

“He’s been!
He’s written!
He says he _will_ see me.
He has guessed that something has turned me against him.”

“He knows now what it is.
Now I want you to write a note to him which I will leave at the bureau in case he calls to-night or to-morrow morning.”

“Yes.”

She went to the writing-table and sat down.
“If you will allow me to suggest the wording.”

“Please--please do!”

She took up a pen and dipped it in the ink.
Then Sir Seymour dictated:

SIR,--Sir Seymour Portman has told me of his meeting with you to-day and of what occurred at it.
What he said to you about me is true.
I _know_.
If you call you will not see me.
I refuse absolutely to see you or to have anything more to do with you, now or at any future time.
“And then your name at the end.”

Miss van Tuyn wrote with a hand that slightly trembled.
“B.
VAN TUYN.”

“If you will put that into an envelope and address it I will take it down and leave it at the bureau.”

“Thank you.”

Miss Van Tuyn put the note into an envelope, closed the envelope and addressed it.
“That’s right.”

Sir Seymour held out his hand and she gave him the note.
“Now, good night.”

“You are going!”

He smiled slightly.
“I don’t sleep at Claridge’s as you and Miss Cronin do.”

“No, of course not.
Thank you so very, very much!
But I can never thank you properly.”

She paused.
Then she said with sudden bitterness:

“And I used to pride myself on my independence!”

“Ah--independence!
A word!” said Sir Seymour.
He turned away to go, but when he was near the door he stopped and seemed hesitating.
“What is it?” said Miss Van Tuyn anxiously.
“Even men sometimes have instincts,” he said, turning round.
“Yes?”

“May I use your telephone?”

“Of course!
But--do--you--”

“Where--Oh, there it is!”

He went to it and called up the bureau.
Then he said: “Sir Seymour Portman is speaking from Miss Van Tuyn’s sitting-room .
.
.
is that Mr. Henriques?
Please tell me, has that man, Arabian, of whom we spoke just now, called again?”

There was a silence in which Miss Van Tuyn, watching, saw a frown wrinkle deeply Sir Seymour’s forehead.
“Ah!
Has he gone?
Did you get rid of him?
.
.
.
How long ago?
.
.
.
Only two or three minutes!
.
.
.
Do you think he knows I am here?
.
.
.
Thank you.
I’ll be down in a moment.”

He put the receiver back.
“Oh, but don’t leave me!” said Miss Van Tuyn distractedly.
“You see, in spite of what you told him he _has_ come!”

“Yes.
He has been.
He’s a determined fellow.”

“He’ll never give it up!
What can I do?”

“All you can do at present is to remain quietly up here in your comfortable rooms.
Leave the rest to me.”

“But if he gets in?”

“He won’t.
Even if he came upstairs--and he won’t be allowed to--he has no key of your outer door.
Now I’ll go down and leave this note at the bureau.
If he comes back and receives it, that will probably decide him to give the thing up.
He is counting on the weakness of your will.
This note will show him you have made up your mind.
By the way”--he fixed his dark eyes on her--“you _have_ made up your mind?”

She blushed up to her hair.
“Oh, yes--yes!”

“Very well.
To-morrow I shall go to Scotland Yard.
We’ll get him out of the country one way or another.”

She accompanied him to the outer door of the apartment.
When he had gone out she shut it behind him, and he heard the click of a bolt being pushed home.
Before leaving the hotel Sir Seymour again sought his discreet friend Henriques, to whom he gave Miss Van Tuyn’s note.
“So the fellow has been?” he said.
“Yes, Sir Seymour.”

“Did you get rid of him easily?”

“Well, to tell the truth, Sir Seymour, he tried to be obstinate.
I think--if you’ll excuse me--I certainly think that he was slightly under the influence of drink.
Not drunk, you’ll understand, not at all as much as that!
But still--”

“Yes--yes.
If he comes back give him that note.
And--do you think it would be wise to give him a hint that any further annoyance might lead to the intervention of the police?
The young lady is very much upset and frightened.
Do you think you might drop a word or two--at your discretion?”

“I’ll manage it, Sir Seymour.
Leave it to me!”

“Very good of you, Henriques.
Good night.”

“Good night, Sir Seymour.
Always very glad to do anything for you.”

“Thank you.”

As Sir Seymour stepped out into Brook Street he glanced swiftly up and down the thoroughfare.
But he did not see the man he was looking for.
He stood still for a moment.
There was hesitation in his mind.
The natural thing, he felt, would be to go at once to Berkeley Square and to have a talk with Adela.
It was late.
He was beginning to feel hungry.
Adela would give him some dinner.
But--could he go to Adela just now?
No; he could not.
And he hailed a cab and drove home.
Something the beast had said had made a horrible impression upon the faithful lover, an impression which remained with him, which seemed to be eating its way, like a powerful acid, into his very soul, corroding, destroying.
Adela--young Craven!
Was it possible?
Was there then never to be an end to that mania, which had been Adela’s curse, and the tragedy of the man who had loved her with the long love which is so rare among men?
There was bitterness in Sir Seymour’s heart that night, and that bitterness sent him home, to the home that was no real home, to the solitude that _she_ had given him.
CHAPTER XV

On the following morning, true to his word, Sir Seymour visited Scotland Yard, and had a talk with a certain authority there who was a very old friend of his.
The authority asked a few questions, but no questions that were indiscreet, or that Sir Seymour was unable to answer without betraying Lady Sellingworth’s confidence.
The sequel to this conversation was that a tall, thin, lemon-coloured man, with tight lips and small, dull-looking eyes, which saw much more than most bright eyes ever see, accompanied Sir Seymour in a cab to Glebe Place.
They arrived there about half-past eleven.
Sir Seymour rang the bell, and in a moment Dick Garstin opened the door.
“What’s the matter?” was Sir Seymour’s unconventional greeting to him.
For the painter’s face was flushed in patches and his small eyes glowed fiercely.
“Who’s this?” he said, looking at Sir Seymour’s companion.
“Detective Inspector Horridge--Mr. Dick Garstin,” said Sir Seymour.
“Oh, come to see the picture!
Well, you’re too late!” said Garstin in a harsh voice.
“Too late!”

“Yes, a damned sight too late!
But come up!”

They went in, and Garstin, without any more words, took them up to the studio.
“There you are!” he said, still in the harsh and unnatural voice.
He flung out his arm towards the easel which stood in the middle of the room.
Sir Seymour and the inspector went up to it.
Part of the canvas on which Arabian’s portrait had been painted was still there.
But the head and face had been cleanly cut away.
Only the torso remained.
“When was this done?” asked Sir Seymour.
“Some time last night, I suppose.”

“But--”

“I didn’t sleep here.
I often don’t, more often than not.
But last night I was a fool to be away.
Well, I’ve paid for my folly!”

“But how--”

“God knows!
The fellow got in.
It doesn’t much matter how.
A false key, I suppose.”

“Does anyone know?”

“Not a soul, except us.”

Sir Seymour was silent.
He had realized at once that Miss Van Tuyn was safe now, safe, too, from further scandal, unless Garstin chose to make trouble.
He looked at the painter, and from him to the inspector.
“What are you going to do?” he said to Dick Garstin.
“I don’t know!” said Garstin.
And he flung himself down on the old sofa by the wall.
“I don’t know!”

For a moment he put his hands up to his temples and stared on the ground.
As he sat there thus he looked like a man who had just been thrashed.
After a moment Sir Seymour went over to him and laid a hand on his shoulder.
Garstin looked up.
“What’s that for?”

He stared into Sir Seymour’s face for an instant.
Perhaps he read something there.
For he seemed to pull himself together, and got up.
“Well, inspector,” he said, “you’ve had your visit for nothing.
It wasn’t a bad picture, either.
I should like you to have had a squint at it.
But--perhaps I’ll do better yet.
Who knows?
Perhaps I’ve stuck to those Cafe Royal types too long.
Eh, Sir Seymour?
Perhaps I’d better make a start in a new line.
Have a whisky?”

“Thank you.
But it’s rather too early,” said the lemon-coloured man.
“Do you wish--”

“No, I don’t!” said Garstin.
“We’ll leave it at that?”

Again he flung out his arm towards the mutilated canvas.
“I made a bargain with the fellow whose portrait that was.
I was to paint it and exhibit it, and then he was to have it.
Well, I suppose we’re about quits.
I can’t exhibit it, but I’m damned if he can make much money out of it.
We’re quits!”

Sir Seymour turned to the inspector.
“Well, inspector, I’m very sorry to have given you this trouble for nothing,” he said.
“I know you’re a busy man.
You take the cab back to Scotland Yard.
Here--you must allow me to pay the shot.
I’ll stay on for a few minutes.
And”--he glanced towards Garstin--“by the way, we may as well keep this matter between us, if Mr. Garstin is good enough to agree.”

“I agree!
I agree!” said Garstin.
“The fact is there’s a woman in it, quite a girl.
We don’t want a scandal.
It would distress her.
And I suppose this is really--this outrage--I suppose it is purely a matter for Mr. Garstin to decide whether he wishes any sequel to it or not.”

“Oh, certainly,” said the inspector.
“If Mr. Garstin doesn’t wish any action to be taken--”

“I don’t!
That’s flat!”

“Very well,” said the inspector.
“Good morning.”

“Back in a moment,” said Garstin to Sir Seymour.
And he went downstairs to let the inspector out.
“So that’s how it ends!” said Sir Seymour to himself when he was alone.
“That’s how it ends!”

And he went over to what had been Arabian’s portrait, and gazed at the hole which surmounted the magnificent torso.
He had no doubt that Arabian had gone out of Miss Van Tuyn’s life for ever.
Probably, almost certainly, he had returned to the hotel on the previous evening, had been given the note Miss Van Tuyn had written to dictation, and also a hint from that very discreet and capable fellow, Henriques, of what might happen if he persisted in trying to force himself upon her.
And then he had come to the decision which had led to the outrage in the studio.
Where was he now?
No longer in Rose Tree Gardens if Sir Seymour knew anything of men.
“The morning boat to Paris, and--the underworld!” Sir Seymour muttered to himself.
“Not much to look at now, is it?” said Garstin’s voice behind him.
He turned round quickly.
Garstin was gazing at his ruined masterpiece with a curious twisted smile.
“What can one say?” said Sir Seymour.
“When Horridge was here I thought: ‘When he’s gone I’ll tell Mr. Garstin!’ And now he is gone, and--and--”

He went up to Garstin and held out his hand.
“I know I don’t understand what you feel about this.
No one could but a fellow-painter as big as you are.
But I wish I could make you understand what I feel about something else.”

“And what’s that?” said Garstin, as he took Sir Seymour’s hand, almost doubtfully.
“About the way you’ve taken it, and your letting the blackguard off.”

“Oh, as to that, I bet you he’ll be in Paris by five to-day.”

“Just what I think.
But still--”

He pressed Garstin’s hand, and Garstin returned the pressure.
“Beryl wanted me to paint him, but I painted him to please myself.
I’m a selfish brute, like most painters, I suppose.”

“But you’re letting him go because of Miss Van Tuyn.”

“Damn it, I believe I am.
I say, are you ever coming here again?”

“If I may.”

“I wish you would.”

He gazed at Sir Seymour’s strong head.
“I’ve spent half my life in showing people up on canvas,” he said.
“I should like to try something else.”

“And what’s that?”

“I should like to try to reveal the underneath fine instead of the underneath filth.
It’d be a new experiment for me.”

He laughed.
“Perhaps I should make a failure of it.
But--if you’d allow me--I would try to make a start with you.”

“I can only say I shall be honoured,” said Sir Seymour, with a touch of almost shamefaced modesty which he endeavoured to hide with a very grave courtliness.
“Please let me know, if you don’t change your mind.
I’m a good bit battered, but such as I am I am always at your service--out of work hours.”

His last words to Garstin at the street door were:

“You’ve taught an old soldier how to take a hard knock.”

CHAPTER XVI

Sir Seymour usually called on Lady Sellingworth about five o’clock in the afternoon when he was not detained by work or inevitable engagements.
On the day of his visit to Garstin’s studio with the inspector he felt that he owed it to Adela to go to Berkeley Square and to tell her what had happened in connexion with Arabian since he had last seen her.
She must be anxious for news.
It was not likely that she had seen Miss Van Tuyn, that beautiful prisoner in Claridge’s hotel.
Miss Van Tuyn might have telephoned to her and told her of his visits to the hotel.
But Adela would certainly expect to see him, would certainly be waiting for him.
He ought to go to her.
Since the morning he had been very busy.
He had not had time to call again on Miss Van Tuyn, who could, therefore--so at least he believed--know nothing of the outrage in the studio.
That piece of news which would surely be welcome to her if she understood what it implied, should rightly come to her from the woman who had been unselfish for her sake.
Adela ought to tell her that.
But first it was his duty to tell Adela.
He must go to Berkeley Square.
And he decided to go and set out on foot.
But as he walked he was conscious of a strange and hideous reluctance to pay the customary visit--the visit which had been the bright spot in his day for so long.
He had interfered with the design of Arabian.
But Arabian unconsciously had stabbed him to the heart with a sentence, meant to be malicious, about Adela, but surely not intended to pierce him.
Young Craven!
Young Craven!
When he reached the familiar door and was standing before it he hesitated to press the bell.
He feared that he would not be perfectly natural with Adela.
He feared that he would be constrained, that he would be unable not to seem cold and rigid.
Almost he was tempted to turn away.
He could write his news to her.
Perhaps even now young Craven was in the house with her.
Perhaps he, the old man, would be unwanted, would only be in the way if he went in.
But it was not his habit to recoil from anything and, after a moment of uneasy waiting, he put his hand to the bell.
Murgatroyd opened the door.
“Good day, Murgatroyd.
Is her Ladyship at home?”

“Yes, Sir Seymour.”

He stepped into the hall, left his hat, coat and stick, and prepared to go upstairs.
“Anyone with her Ladyship?”

“No, Sir Seymour.
Her Ladyship is alone.”

A moment later Murgatroyd opened the drawing-room door and made the familiar announcement:

“Sir Seymour Portman!”

Adela was as usual on the sofa by the tea-table, near to the fireplace in which ship logs were blazing.
She got up to greet him, and looked at him eagerly, almost anxiously.
“I was hoping you would come.
Has anything happened?”

“Yes, a great deal,” he said, as he took her hand.
“Why do you look at me like that?” she asked.
“But--do I look at you differently from--”

“Yes,” she interrupted him.
He lowered his eyes, feeling almost guilty.
“But in what way?”

“As if you wanted to know something, as if--have you changed towards me?”

“My dear Adela!
What a question from you after all these years!”

“You might change.”

“Nonsense, my dear.”

“No, no, it is not!
Anyone may change.
We are all incalculable.”

“Give me some tea now.
And let me tell you my news.”

She sat down again, but her luminous eyes were still fixed on him, and there was an almost terrified expression in them.
“You haven’t seen--him?” she asked.
“Yes.”

“You have!
I felt it!
He has said something about me, something horrible!”

“Adela, do you really think I would take an opinion of you from a blackguard like that?”

“Please tell me everything,” she said.
She looked painfully agitated, and something in her agitation made him feel very tender, for it gave her in his eyes a strange semblance of youthfulness.
Yes, despite all she had done, all the years she had lived through, there was something youthful in her still.
Perhaps it was that which persistently held out hands to youth!
The thought struck him and the tenderness was lessened in his eyes.
“Seymour, you are hiding something from me,” she said.
“Adela, give me a little time!
I am going to tell you my news.”

“Yes, yes, please do!”

“I want my tea,” he said, with a smile.
“Oh, I beg your pardon!”

“How young you are!” he said.
“Young!
How can you say such a thing?”

“Now really, Adela!
As if I could ever be sarcastic with you!”

“That remark could only be sarcastic.”

He sipped his tea.
“No; you will always have youth in you.
It is undying.
It makes half your charm, my dear.
And perhaps--”

“Yes?”

“Well, perhaps it has caused most of the trouble in your life.”

She looked down.
“Our best gifts have their--what shall I say--their shady side, I suppose.
And we seem to have to pay very often for what are thought of as gifts.
But now I must tell you.”

“Yes.”

And then he began to relate to her, swiftly although he was old, the events of his mission.
She listened, and while she listened she sat very still.
She had looked up.
Her eyes were fixed upon him.
Presently he reached the point in his narrative where Arabian walked into Dick Garstin’s studio.
Then she moved.
She seemed suddenly seized with an uncontrollable restlessness.
He went on without looking at her, but he heard her movements, the rustle of her gown, the touch of her hand on a sofa cushion, on the tea-table, the chink of moved china, touching other china.
And two or three times he heard the faint sound of her breathing.
He knew she was suffering intensely, and he believed it was because of the haunting, inexorable remembrance of the enticement that abominable fellow, Arabian, had had for her.
But he had to go on.
And he went on till he came to the scene in the flat at Rose Tree Gardens.
“You--you went to his room!” she then said, interrupting him.
“Yes.”

He heard her sigh.
But she said nothing more.
He told what had happened in the flat, but not fully.
He said nothing of Arabian’s mention of her name, but he did tell her that he himself had spoken of her, had said that he was a friend of hers.
And finally he told her how, carried away by indignation, he had spoken of his and Miss Van Tuyn’s knowledge that Arabian had stolen her jewels.
“I didn’t mean to tell him that,” he added.
“But--well, it came out.
I--I hope you forgive me?”

He did not wait for her answer, but told her of his abrupt departure from the flat, and of his subsequent visit to Miss Van Tuyn, of what he had learnt at the hotel, and of what he had done there.
“The police!” she said, as if startled.
“But if--if there should be a scandal!
Oh, Seymour, that would be too horrible!
I couldn’t bear that!
He might--it might come out!
And my name--”

She got up from the sofa.
Her face looked drawn with an anxiety that was like agony.
He got up too.
“It was only a threat.
But in any case it will be all right, Adela.”

“But we don’t know what he may do!” she said, with desperation.
“Wait till you know what he has done.”

“What has he done?”

And then he told her of the outrage in the studio.
When he was silent she made a slight swaying movement and took hold of the mantelpiece.
He saw by her face that she had grasped at once what Arabian’s action implied.
Flight!
“You see--he’s done with.
We’ve done with the fellow!” he said at last as she did not speak.
“Yes.”

Her face, when not interfered with, was always pale.
But now it looked horribly, unnaturally white.
Relief, he believed, had shaken her in the very soul.
“Adela, did you think your good deed was going to recoil on you?” he said.
“Did you really think it was going to bring punishment on you?
I don’t believe things go like that even in this distracted, inexplicable old world.”

“Don’t they?
Mightn’t they?”

“Surely not.
You have saved that girl.
You have paid back that scoundrel.
And you have nothing to fear.”

“Why did you look at me like that when you came into the room?”

“But you are--”

“No.
You haven’t told me something.
Tell me!”

“Be happy in the good result of your self-sacrifice, Adela.”

“I want you to tell me.
There is something.
I know there is.”

“Yes.
But it only concerns me.”

“Seymour, I don’t believe that!”

He was silent, looking at her with the old dog’s eyes.
But now there was something else in them besides faithfulness.
“Well, Adela,” he said at last, “I believe very much in absolute sincerity between real friends.
But I suppose friendship must be very real indeed to stand absolute sincerity.
Don’t you think so?”

“Yes, I do.
But our friendship is as real as any friendship can be, I think.”

“Yes, but on my side it is mixed up, it has always been mixed up, with something else.”

“Yes, I know,” she said in a low voice.
“And besides I’m afraid, if I speak quite frankly, I shall hurt you, my dear!”

“Then--hurt me, Seymour!”

“Shall I?
Can I do that?”

“Be frank with me.
I have been very frank with you.
I have told _you_.”

“Yes, indeed.
You have been nobly, gloriously frank.
Well, then--that horrible fellow did say something which I haven’t told you, something that, I confess it, has upset me.”

“What was it?” she said, still in the low voice, and bending her small head a little like one expecting punishment.
“He alluded to a friend of yours.
He mentioned that nice boy I met here, young Craven?”

“Yes?”

“I really can’t get what he said over my lips, Adela.”

“I know what he said.
You needn’t tell me.”

The were both silent for a minute.
Then she came close to him.
“Seymour, perhaps you want to ask me a question about Mr. Craven.
But--don’t!
You needn’t.
I have done, absolutely done, with all that side of my life which you hate.
A part of my nature has persecuted me.
It has often led me into follies and worse, as you know.
But I have done with it.
Indeed, indeed I can answer for myself.
I wouldn’t dare to speak like this to you, the soul of sincerity, if I couldn’t.
But I’ll prove it to you.
Seymour, you know what I am.
I dare say you have always known.
But the other night I told you myself.”

“Yes.”

“If I hadn’t I shouldn’t dare now to ask you what I am going to ask you.
Is it possible that you still love me enough to care to be more than the friend you have always been to me?”

“Do you mean--”

He paused.
“Yes,” she said.
“I ask nothing more of life than that, Adela.”

“Nor do I, dear Seymour.”

CHAPTER XVII

That evening Miss Van Tuyn learnt through the telephone from Lady Sellingworth what had happened in Dick Garstin’s studio during the previous night.
On the following morning at breakfast time she learnt from Sir Seymour that the flat in Rose Tree Gardens had been abruptly deserted by its tenant, who had left very early the day before.
She was free from persecution, and, of course, she realized her freedom; but, so strange are human impulses, she was at first unable to be happy in her knowledge that the burden of fear had been lifted from her.
The misfortune which had fallen on Dick Garstin obsessed her mind.
Her egoism was drowned in her passionate anger at what Arabian had done.
She went early to the studio and found Garstin there alone.
“Hulloh, Beryl, my girl!” he said, in his usual offhand manner.
“Come round to see the remains?”

“Oh, Dick!” she exclaimed, grasping his hand.
“Oh, I’m so grieved, so horrified!
What an awful thing to happen to you!
And it’s all my fault!
Where--what have you done with--”

“What’s left do you mean?
Go and see for yourself.”

She hurried upstairs to the studio.
When he followed he found her standing before the mutilated picture, which was still in its place, with tears rolling down her flushed cheeks.
“Good God!
Beryl!
What’s up?
What are you whimpering about?”

“How you must hate me!” she said, in a broken voice.
“How you must hate me!”

“Rubbish!
What for?”

“This has all happened because of me.
If it hadn’t been for me you would never have painted him.”

“I painted the fellow to please myself.”

“But I asked you to get him to come here.”

“What you ask, or don’t ask, doesn’t bother me.”

She gazed at him through her tears as if in surprise.
“Dick, I never thought you could be like this,” she said.
“Like what?
What’s all the fuss about?” he exclaimed irritably.
“I always thought you were really a brute.”

“That showed your sound judgment.”

“How can you take it like this?
Your masterpiece--ruined!
For you’ll never do anything like it again.”

“That’s probably gospel truth.
My girl, you are standing in front of my epitaph on the Cafe Royal.
There it is.
Look well at it!
I’ve buried my past, and I’m going to start again.
And who do you think is to be my next victim?”

“Who?”

“You’ll never guess--a gentleman!”

“A gentleman?
What do you mean, Dick?
The word has gone out.”

“But not the thing, thank God, so long as Sir Seymour Portman keeps about on his dear old pins.”

“You are going to paint Sir Seymour?”

“I am!
Think I can do him?”

She looked at him for a moment, and her violet eyes searched him as if to see whether he were worthy.
Then she said soberly:

“Yes, Dick.”

“Then let’s turn the damned epitaph with its hole to the wall!”

And he lifted what remained of Arabian’s portrait from the easel and threw it into a dark corner of the studio.
CHAPTER XVIII

One evening, some ten days later, before any rumour of Lady Sellingworth’s new decision had gone about in the world of London, before even Braybrooke knew, on coming home from the Foreign Office Craven found a note lying on the table in the tiny hall of his flat.
He picked it up and saw Miss Van Tuyn’s handwriting.
He had not seen either her or Lady Sellingworth since the evening when they had met in the _Bella Napoli_.
Both women had come into his life together.
And it seemed to him that both had gone out of it together.
His acquaintance, or friendship, with them had been a short episode in his pilgrimage, and apparently the episode was definitely over.
But now--here was a letter from the beautiful girl!
He took it up, carried it into his sitting-room, and tore open the envelope.
“CLARIDGE’S.
“Thursday.
“MY DEAR MR. CRAVEN,--I am going back to Paris almost directly and should very much like to see you if possible to say good-bye.
Have you a few minutes to spare any time?
If so, do come round to the hotel and let us have a last little talk.--Yours sincerely,

“BERYL VAN TUYN.”

When he had read this brief note Craven was struck, as he had been struck when he had read Lady Sellingworth’s letter to him, by a certain finality in the wording.
Good-bye--a last little talk!
Miss Van Tuyn might have put “au revoir,” might have omitted the word “last.”

He looked at the clock.
It was not very late--only half-past five.
He decided to go at once to the hotel.
And he went.
Miss Van Tuyn was at home.
He went up in the lift and was shown into her sitting-room.
He waited there for a few minutes.
Then the door opened and she came in smiling.
“How good of you to come so soon!
I hardly expected you.”

“But--why not?” he said, as he took her hand.
She glanced at him inquiringly, he thought, then said:

“Oh, I don’t know!
You’re a busy man, and have lots of engagements.
Let us sit by the fire.”

“Yes.”

They sat down, and there was a moment of silence.
For once Miss Van Tuyn seemed slightly embarrassed--not quite at her ease.
Craven did not help her.
He still remembered the encounter in Glebe Place with a feeling of anger.
He still felt that he moved in a certain darkness, that both Lady Sellingworth and Miss Van Tuyn had been unkind to him, had treated him if not badly, at any rate in a way that was unfriendly, and, to him, inexplicable.
He did not want to seem hurt, but, on the other hand, he did not feel that it was incumbent upon him to rush forward with gracious eagerness, or to show any keen desire for the old, intimate relations.
So he just sat there trying not to look stiff, but not making any effort to look charming and sympathetic.
“Have you seen Adela lately?” Miss Van Tuyn said at last, breaking the silence.
“No,” he said.
“Not since the night when we met in the _Bella Napoli_.”

“Oh, that’s too bad!”

“Why too bad?”

“I thought you were such friends!”

“Scarcely that, I think,” replied Craven, in his most definitely English manner.
“I like Lady Sellingworth very much, but she has swarms of friends, and I can’t expect her to bother very much about me.”

“But I don’t think she has swarms of friends.”

“Perhaps nobody does.
Still, she knows a tremendous number of people.”

“I am sure she likes you,” said Miss Van Tuyn.
“Do go and see her sometimes.
I think--I think she would appreciate it.”

“No doubt I shall see her again.
Why not?”

“Don’t you like her anymore?”

“Of course I do.”

Suddenly she leaned forward, almost impulsively, and said:

“You remember I had a sort of cult for Adela?”

“Did you?”

“But you know I had!
Well, I only want to tell you that it isn’t a cult now.
I have got to know Adela better, to know her really.
I used to admire her as a great lady.
Now I love her as a splendid woman.
She’s rare.
That is the word for her.
Once--not long ago--I was talking to a man who knows what people are.
And he summed Adela up in a phrase.
He said she was a thoroughbred.
We young ones--modern, I suppose we are--we can learn something from her.
I have learnt something.
Isn’t that an admission?
For the young generation to acknowledge that it has something to learn from--from what are sometimes called the ‘has beens’!”

Craven looked at her and noticed with surprise that her violet eyes were clouded for a moment, as if some moisture had found its way into them.
Perhaps she saw that look of his.
For she laughed, changed the conversation, and from that moment talked in her usual lively way about less intimate topics.
But when Craven presently got up to go she returned for a moment to her former more serious mood.
As he took her hand to say good-bye she said:

“Perhaps we shall meet again--perhaps not.
I don’t know when I shall be back in London.
I’m soon going over to America with Fanny.
But don’t think too badly of me.”

“I?
How could I think badly of you?”

“Oh, yes--you might!
There are things I can’t explain which may easily have given you a nasty impression of me.
If I could explain them perhaps you would remember me more pleasantly.
Anyhow, I shall always think of you as one of my _friends_.
Good-bye.”

And then she moved away, and he went to the door.
But just as he was going he turned round and said:

“Au revoir!”

She made a little kind gesture with her left hand, but she said nothing.
At that moment she was thinking of Adela.
