I

THE DRAMA OF THE RUE NORVINS

On Monday, April 4th, 19--, the evening paper _La Capitale_ published the following article on its first page:--

A drama, over the motives of which there is a bewildering host of conjectures, was unfolded this morning on the heights of Montmartre.
The Baroness de Vibray, well known in the Parisian world and among artists, whose generous patroness she was, has been found dead in the studio of the ceramic painter, Jacques Dollon.
The young painter, rendered completely helpless by a soporific, lay stretched out beside her when the crime was discovered.
We say 'crime' designedly, because, when the preliminary medical examination was completed, it was clear that the death of the Baroness de Vibray was due to the absorption of some poison.
The painter, Jacques Dollon, whom the enlightened attentions of Doctor Mayran had drawn from his condition of torpor, underwent a short examination from the superintendent of police, in the course of which he made remarks of so suspicious a nature that the examining magistrate put him under arrest then and there.
At police headquarters they are absolutely dumb regarding this strange affair.
Nevertheless, the personal investigation undertaken by us throws a little light on what is already called: _The Drama of the Rue Norvins_.
_The Discovery of the Crime_

This morning, about seven o'clock, Madame Beju, a housekeeper in the service of the painter, Jacques Dollon, who, with his sister, Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon, occupied lodge number six, in the Close of the rue Norvins, was on the ground-floor of the house, attending to her customary duties.
She had been on the premises about half an hour, and, so far, had not noticed anything abnormal; however, astonished at not hearing any movements on the floor above, for the painter generally rose pretty early, Madame Beju decided to go upstairs and wake her master, who would be vexed at having let himself sleep so late.
She had to pass through the studio to reach Monsieur Jacques Dollon's bedroom.
No sooner had she raised the door curtain of the studio than she recoiled, horrorstruck!
Disorder reigned in the studio: a startling disorder!
Pieces of furniture displaced, some of them overturned, showed that something extraordinary had happened there.
In the middle of the room, on the floor, lay the inanimate form of a person whom Madame Beju knew well, for she had seen her at the painter's house many a time--the Baroness de Vibray.
Not far from her, buried in a large arm-chair, motionless, giving no sign of life, was Monsieur Jacques Dollon!
When the good woman saw the rigid attitude of these two persons, she realised that she was in the presence of a tragedy.
Stirred to the depths, she redescended the stairs, calling for help: shortly afterwards, the entire Close was in a state of ferment: house porters, neighbours, male and female, crowded round Madame Beju, endeavouring to understand her disconnected account of the terrifying spectacle she had come face to face with but a minute before.
Sudden death, suicide, crime--all were plausible suppositions.
The more audacious of these gossip-mongers had ventured as far as the studio door; from that standpoint, a rapid glance round enabled them to get a clear idea of the truth of the housekeeper's statements: they returned to give a confirmation of them to the inquisitive and increasing crowd in the principal avenue of the Close.
'The police!
The police must be informed!'
cried the Close portress.
Whilst this woman, with considerable presence of mind, and aided by Madame Beju, exerted herself to keep out the people of the neighbourhood who had got wind of the tragedy, two men had set off to seek the police.
_Lodge Number 6_

On the summit of Montmartre is the rue Norvins.
In shape it resembles a donkey's back, and at one particular spot it hugs the accentuated curve of the Butte.
The Close of the rue Norvins is situated at number 47.
It is separated from the street by a strong iron gate, the porter's lodge being at the side.
The Close consists of a series of little dwellings, separated by wooden railings, up which climbing plants grow.
Fine trees encircle these abodes with so thick a curtain of leafage that the inhabitants might think themselves buried in the depths of the country.
Lodge Number 6 is even more isolated than the others.
It consists of a ground floor and a first floor, with an immense studio attached.
Three years ago, Number 6 was leased to Monsieur Jacques Dollon, then a student at the Fine Arts School.
It has been continuously occupied by the tenant and his sister, Miss Elizabeth Dollon, who has kept house for her brother.
For the last fortnight the painter has been alone: his sister, who had gone to Switzerland to convalesce after a long illness, was expected back that same day, or the day following.
The reputation of the two young people is considered by their neighbours to be beyond criticism.
The artist has led a regular and hard-working life: last year the Salon accorded him a medal of the second class.
His sister, an affable and unassuming girl, seemed always much attached to her brother.
In that very Bohemian neighbourhood she is highly thought of as a girl of the most estimable character.
The Baroness de Vibray visited them frequently, and her motor-car used to attract attention in that high, remote suburb--the wilds of Montmartre.
The old lady liked to dress in rather showy colours; she was considered eccentric, but was also known to be good and generous.
She took a particular interest in the Dollons, whose family, so it was said, she had known in Provence.
Jacques Dollon and his sister highly valued their intimacy with the Baroness de Vibray, who was known all over Paris as a patroness of artists and the arts.
_First Verifications_

Already slander and imagination between them had concocted the wildest stories, when Monsieur Agram, the eminent police superintendent of the Clignancourt Quarter, appeared at the entrance to the Close.
Accompanied by his secretary, he at once entered Number 6, charging the two policemen, who were assisting him, on no account to allow anyone to enter, excepting the doctor, whom he had at once sent for.
He requested the portress to hold herself at his disposal in the garden, and made Madame Beju accompany him to the studio.
Barely twenty minutes had elapsed since the housekeeper had been terror-struck by the dreadful spectacle which had met her eyes there.
When she entered with the superintendent of police nothing had been altered.
Madame de Vibray, horribly pale, her eyes closed, her lips violet-hued, lay stretched on the floor: her body had assumed the rigidity of a corpse.
That of Jacques Dollon, huddled in an arm-chair, was in a state of immobility.
Monsieur Agram at once noticed long, intersecting streaks on the floor, such as might have been traced by heavy furniture dragged over the waxed boards of the flooring.
A pungent medicinal odour caught the throats of the visitors: Madame Beju was about to open a window: the superintendent stopped her:

'Let things remain as they are for the present,' was his order.
After casting an observant eye round the room he questioned the housekeeper:

'Is this state of disorder usual?'
'Never in this world, sir!'
declared the good woman.
'Monsieur Dollon and his sister are very steady, very regular in their habits, especially the young lady.
It is true that she has been absent for nearly a month, but her brother has often been left alone, and he has always insisted on his studio being kept in good order.'
'Did Monsieur Dollon have many visitors?'
'Very seldom, monsieur.
Sometimes his neighbours would come in; and then there was that poor lady lying there so deathly pale that it makes me ill to look at her....'

_Jacques Dollon lives_

The conversation was interrupted by the arrival of the doctor employed in connection with relief for the poor.
The superintendent of police pointed out to this Dr. Mayran the two inanimate figures.
A glance of the doctor's trained eye sufficed to show him that Madame de Vibray had been dead for some time.
Approaching Jacques Dollon, Dr. Mayran examined him attentively:

'Will you help me to lift him on to a bed or a table?'
he asked.
'It seems to me that this one is not dead.'
'His bedroom is next to this!'
cried Madame Beju.
'Oh, heavens above!
If only the poor young man would recover!'
Silently the doctor, aided by the superintendent and a policeman, transported young Dollon into the next room.
'Air!'
cried the doctor, 'give him air!
Open all the windows!
It seems to me a case of suspended animation!
There is partial suffocation.
This will probably yield to energetic treatment.'
Whilst good Madame Beju, whose legs were shaking under her, was carrying out the doctor's orders, the superintendent of police kept watch to see that nothing was touched.
The doctor's attention was concentrated on Jacques Dollon.
Monsieur Agram was searching for some indication which might throw light on the drama.
So far he had been unable to formulate any hypothesis.
Should the moribund painter return to consciousness, the explanation he could give would certainly clear up the situation.
At this point in the superintendent's cogitations, the doctor called out:

'He lives!
He lives!
Bring me a glass of water!'
Jacques Dollon was returning to consciousness!
Slowly, painfully, his features contracting as at the remembrance of a horrible nightmare, the young man stretched his limbs, opened his eyes: he turned a dull gaze on those about him, a gaze which became one of stupefaction when he perceived these unknown faces gathered round his bed.
His eyes fell on his housekeeper.
He murmured:

'Mme ... Be-ju ... je...,' and fell back into unconsciousness.
'Is he dead?'
whispered Monsieur Agram.
The doctor smiled:

'Be reassured, monsieur: he lives; but he finds it terribly difficult to wake up.
He has certainly swallowed some powerful narcotic and is still under its influence; but its effects will soon pass off now.'
The good doctor spoke the truth.
In a short time Jacques Dollon, making a violent effort, sat up.
Casting scared and bewildered glances about him, he cried:

'Who are you?
What do you want of me?...
Ah, the ruffians!
The bandits!'
'There is nothing to fear, monsieur.
I am simply the doctor they have called in to attend to you!
Be calm!...
You must recover your senses, and tell us what has happened!'
Jacques Dollon pressed his hands to his forehead, as though in pain:

'How heavy my head is!'
he muttered.
'What has happened to me?...
Let me see!...
Wait.... Ah ... yes ... that's it!'
At a sign from the doctor, the superintendent had stationed himself beside the bed, behind the young painter.
Keeping a finger on his patient's pulse, the doctor asked him, in a fatherly fashion, to tell him all about it.
'It is like this,' replied Jacques Dollon.... 'Yesterday evening I was sitting in my arm-chair reading.
It was getting late.
I had been working hard....
I was tired.... All of a sudden I was surrounded by masked men, clothed in long black garments: they flung themselves on me.
Before I could make a movement I was gagged, bound with cords....
I felt something pointed driven into my leg--into my arm.... Then an overpowering drowsiness overcame me, the strangest visions passed before my eyes; I lost consciousness rapidly....
I wanted to move, to cry out ... in vain ... there was no strength in me ... powerless ... and that's all!'
'Is there nothing more?'
asked the doctor.
After a minute's reflection Jacques answered:

'That is all.'
He now seemed fully awake.
He moved: the movement was evidently painful: 'It hurts,' he said, instinctively putting his hand on his left thigh.
'Let us see what is wrong,' said the doctor, and was preparing to examine the place when a voice from the studio called:

'Monsieur!'
It was Monsieur Agram's secretary.
The magistrate left his post by the bed and went into the studio.
'Monsieur,' said the secretary, 'I have just found this paper under the chair in which Monsieur Dollon was: will you acquaint yourself with its contents?'
The magistrate seized the paper: it was a letter, couched in the following terms:

_Dear Madame,_

_If you do not fear to climb the heights of Montmartre some      evening, will you come to see the painted pottery I am preparing      for the Salon: you will be welcome, and will confer on us a great      pleasure.
I say 'us,' because I have excellent news of Elizabeth,      who is returning shortly: perhaps she will be here to receive you      with me._

_I am your respectful and devoted_      _Jacques Dollon._

The magistrate was frowning as he handed back the letter to his secretary, saying: 'Keep it carefully.'
Then he went into the bedroom, where the doctor was talking to the invalid.
The doctor turned to Monsieur Agram:

'Monsieur Dollon has just asked me who you are: I did not think I ought to hide from him that you are a superintendent of police, monsieur.'
'Ah!'
cried Jacques Dollon.
'Can you help me to discover what happened to me last night?'
'You have just told us yourself, monsieur,' replied the magistrate.... 'But have you nothing further to tell us?
Can you not recollect whether or no you had a visitor before the arrival of the men who attacked you?'
'Why, no, monsieur, no one called.'
The doctor here intervened:

'The pain in the leg, Monsieur Dollon complained of, need not cause any anxiety.
It is a very slight superficial wound.
A slight swelling above the broken skin possibly indicates an intra-muscular puncture, which might have been made by someone unaccustomed to such operations, for it is a clumsy performance.
It is a queer business!...'
Monsieur Agram, who had been steadily observing Jacques Dollon, persisted:

'Is there not a gap, monsieur, in your recollections of what occurred?...
Were you quite alone yesterday evening?
Were you not expecting anyone?...
Are you certain that you did not have a visitor?
Did not someone pay you a visit--someone you had asked to come and see you?'
Jacques Dollon opened his eyes--eyes of stupefaction--and stared at the superintendent:

'No, monsieur.'
'It is that----' went on Monsieur Agram.
Then stopping short, and drawing the doctor aside, he asked:

'Do you consider him in a fit state to bear a severe moral shock?...
A confrontation?'
The doctor glanced at his patient:

'He appears to me to be quite himself again: you can act as you see fit, monsieur.'
Jacques Dollon, astonished at this confabulation, and vaguely uneasy, was, in fact, able to get up without help.
'Be good enough to go into your studio, monsieur,' said the magistrate.
Jacques Dollon complied without a word.
No sooner did he cross the threshold than he recoiled, terror-struck.
He was shaking from head to foot; his lips were quivering; every feature expressed horrified shrinking from the spectacle confronting him.
'The--the--the Baroness de Vibray!'
he barely articulated: 'how can it be possible?'
The superintendent of police did not lose a single movement made by the young painter, keeping a lynx-eyed watch on every expression that flitted across his countenance.
He said:

'It certainly is the Baroness de Vibray, dead--assassinated, no doubt.
How do you explain that?'
'But,' retorted Jacques Dollon, who appeared overwhelmed: 'I do not know!
I do not understand!'
The magistrate replied:

'Yet, did you not invite her to your studio?
Had you not asked her to come some evening soon?
Had you not certain pieces of painted pottery to show her?'
'That is so,' confessed the painter: 'but I was not aware....
I did not know....' He seemed about to faint.
The doctor made him sit down in the chair where he had been found unconscious.
Whilst he was recovering, Monsieur Agram continued his investigations.
He opened a little cupboard, in which were several poisonous powders: this was shown by the writing on the flasks containing them.
He spoke to the doctor, taking care that Jacques Dollon should not overhear him:

'Did you not say that this woman's death is due to poison?'
'It certainly looks like it.... A post-mortem will ...'

_The Arrest_

Interrupting the doctor, Monsieur Agram went up to Jacques Dollon:

'In the exercise of your profession, monsieur, do you not make use of various poisons, of which you have a reserve supply here?'
'That is so,' confirmed Jacques Dollon, in a faint voice: 'But it is a very long time since I employed any of them.'
'Very good, monsieur.'
Monsieur Agram now made Madame Beju leave the room.
He asked her to transmit an order to his policemen: they were to drive back the crowd.
Soon a cab brought by a constable entered the Close, and drew up before the door of Number 6.
Jacques Dollon, supported by two people, descended and entered the cab.
Immediately a rumour spread that he had been arrested.
This rumour was correct.
_Our Inquiry--Silence at Police Headquarters--Probable Motives of      the Crime_

Such are the details referring to this strange affair, which we have been able to procure from those who were present.
But the motives which determined the arrest of Monsieur Dollon are obscure.
There are, however, two suspicious facts.
The first is the puncture made in Monsieur Jacques Dollon's left leg: this puncture is aggravated by a scratch.
According to the doctors, soporific, injected into the human body by the de Pravaz syringe, acts violently and efficaciously.
It is beyond a doubt that Monsieur Jacques Dollon has been rendered unconscious in this manner.
To begin with, the painter's first version was considered the true one, namely, that he had been surprised by robbers, who rendered him unconscious; but, on reflection, this explanation would not hold water.
Murderous house-thieves do not send people to sleep: they kill them.
Add to this that nothing has been stolen from Monsieur Dollon: therefore, mere robbery was not the motive of the crime.
Besides, Monsieur Dollon maintained that he was alone; yet at that time Madame de Vibray was in his studio, and was there precisely because the artist himself had asked her to come.
We know that the Baroness de Vibray, who was very wealthy, took a particular interest in this young man and his sister.
We should consider ourselves to blame, did we not now remind our readers that the names of those personages--Dollon, Vibray--implicated in the drama of the rue Norvins, have already figured in the chronicles of crimes, both recent and celebrated.
Thus the assassination of the Marquise de Langrune cannot have been forgotten, an assassination which has remained a mystery, which was perpetrated a few years ago, and brought into prominence the personalities of Monsieur Rambert and the charming Therese Auvernois....

Madame de Vibray, who has just been so tragically done to death, was an intimate friend of the Marquise de Langrune....

Monsieur Jacques Dollon is a son of Madame de Langrune's old steward....

We do not, of course, pretend to connect, in any way whatever, the drama of the rue Norvins with the bygone drama which ended in the execution of Gurn,[1] but we cannot pass over in silence the strange coincidence that, within the space of a few years, the same halo of mystery surrounds the same group of individuals....

[Footnote 1: See _Fantomas_.]
But let us return to our narrative:

Monsieur Jacques Dollon, interrogated by the superintendent of police, declared that he very rarely made use of the poisons locked up in the little cupboard of his studio....
Notwithstanding this, it was discovered, during the course of the perquisition, that one of the phials containing poison had been recently opened, and that traces of the powder were still to be found on the floor.
This powder is now being analysed, whilst the faculty are engaged in a post-mortem examination of the unfortunate victim's body; but, at the present moment, everything leads to the belief that there does not exist an immediate and certain link between this poison and the sudden death of the Baroness de Vibray.
It might easily be supposed, and this we believe is the view taken at Police Headquarters, that for a motive as yet unknown, a motive the judicial examination will certainly bring to light, the artist has poisoned his patroness; and, in order to put the authorities on the wrong scent (perhaps he hoped she would leave the studio before the death-agony commenced), he has devised this species of tableau, invented the story of the masked men.
In fact, the doctor who first attended him has declared that the puncture, clumsily made, might very well have been done by Jacques Dollon himself.
It is worth noting that not a soul saw the Baroness de Vibray enter Monsieur Dollon's house yesterday evening: as a rule, she comes in her motor-car, and all the neighbourhood can hear her arrival.
It seems evident that Jacques Dollon will abandon the line of defence he has adopted: it can hardly be described as rational.
There is little doubt but that we shall have sensational revelations regarding the crime of the rue Norvins.
_Last Hour_

Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon, to whom Police Headquarters has telegraphed that a serious accident has happened to her brother, has sent a reply telegram from Lausanne to the effect that she will return to-night.
The unfortunate girl is probably ignorant of all that has occurred.
Nevertheless, we believe that two detectives have left at once for the frontier, where they will meet her, and shadow her as far as Paris, in case she should get news on the way of what had occurred, and should either attempt to escape, or make an attempt on her life.
Decidedly, to-morrow promises to be a day full of vicissitudes.
*       *       *       *       *

This article, published on the first page of _La Capitale_, was signed:

JEROME FANDOR.
II

THOMERY'S TWO LOVES

Two days before the sinister drama, details of which Jerome Fandor had given in _La Capitale_, the smart little town house inhabited by the Baroness de Vibray, in the Avenue Henri-Martin, assumed a festive appearance.
This did not surprise her neighbours, for they knew the owner of this charming residence was very much a woman of the world, whose reception-rooms were constantly opened to the many distinguished Parisians forming her circle of acquaintances.
It was seven in the evening when the Baroness, dressed for dinner, passed from her own room into the small drawing-room adjoining.
Crossing a carpet so thick and soft that it deadened the sound of footsteps, she pressed the button of an electric bell beside the fireplace.
A major-domo, of the most correct appearance, presented himself.
"The Baroness rang for me?"
Madame de Vibray, who had instinctively sought the flattering approval of her mirror, half turned:

"I wish to know if anyone called this afternoon, Antoine?"
"For the Baroness?"
"Of course!"
she replied, a note of impatience in her voice: "I want to know if anyone called to see _me_ this afternoon?"
"No, madame."
"No one has telephoned from the Barbey-Nanteuil Bank?"
"No, madame."
Repressing a slight feeling of annoyance, Madame de Vibray changed the subject:

"You will have dinner served as soon as the guests arrive.
They will not be later than half-past seven, I suppose."
Antoine bowed solemnly, vanished into the anteroom, and from thence gained the servants' hall.
Madame de Vibray quitted the small drawing-room.
Traversing the great gallery with its glass roof, encircling the staircase, she entered the dining-room.
Covers were laid for three.
Inspecting the table arrangements with the eye of a mistress of the house, she straightened the line of some plates, gave a touch of distinction to the flowers scattered over the table in a conventional disorder; then she went to the sideboard, where the major-domo had left a china pot filled with flowers.
With a slight shrug, the Baroness carried the pot to its usual place--a marble column at the further end of the room:

"It was fortunate I came to see how things were!
Antoine is a good fellow, but a hare-brained one too!"
thought she.
Madame de Vibray paused a moment: the light from an electric lamp shone on the vase and wonderfully enhanced its glittering beauty.
It was a piece of faience decorated in the best taste.
On its graceful form the artist had traced the lines of an old colour print, and had scrupulously preserved the picture born of an eighteenth-century artist's imagination, with its brilliancy of tone and soft background of tender grey.
Madame de Vibray could not tear herself away from the contemplation of it.
Not only did the design and the treatment please her, but she also felt a kind of maternal affection for the artist: "This dear Jacques," she murmured, "has decidedly a great deal of talent, and I like to think that in a short time his reputation...."

Her reflections were interrupted by the servant.
The good Antoine announced in a low voice, and with a touch of respectful reproach in his tone:

"Monsieur Thomery awaits the Baroness in the small drawing-room: he has been waiting ten minutes."
"Very well.
I am coming."
Madame de Vibray, whose movements were all harmonious grace, returned by way of the gallery to greet her guest.
She paused on the threshold of the small drawing-room, smiling graciously.
Framed in the dark drapery of the heavy door-curtains, the soft light from globes of ground glass falling on her, the Baroness de Vibray appeared a very attractive woman still.
Her figure had retained its youthful slenderness, her neck, white as milk, was as round and fresh as a girl's; and had the hair about her forehead and temples not been turning grey--the Baroness wore it powdered, a piece of coquettish affection on her part--she would not have looked a day more than thirty.
Monsieur Thomery rose hastily, and advanced to meet her.
He kissed her hand with a gallant air:

"My dear Mathilde," he declared with an admiring glance, "you are decidedly an exquisite woman!"
The Baroness replied by a glance, in which there was something ambiguous, something of ironical mockery:

"How are you, Norbert?"
she asked in an affectionate tone.... "And those pains?"
They seated themselves on a low couch, and began to discuss their respective aches and pains in friendly fashion.
Whilst listening to his complaints, Madame de Vibray could not but admire his remarkable vigour, his air of superb health: his looks gave the lie to his words.
About fifty-five, Monsieur Norbert Thomery seemed to be in the plenitude of his powers; his premature baldness was redeemed by the vivacity of his dark brown eyes, also by his long, thick moustache, probably dyed.
He looked like an old soldier.
He was the last of the great Thomery family who, for many generations, had been sugar refiners.
His was a personality well known in Parisian Society; always first at his office or his factories, as soon as night fell he became the man of the world, frequenting fashionable drawing-rooms, theatrical first-nights, official receptions, and balls in the aristocratic circles of the faubourg Saint-Germain.
Remarkably handsome, extremely rich, Thomery had had many love affairs.
Gossips had it that between him and Madame de Vibray there had existed a tender intimacy; and, for once, gossip was right.
But they had been tactful, had respected the conventions whilst their irregular union had lasted.
Though now a thing of the past, for Thomery had sought other loves, his passion for the Baroness had changed to a calm, strong, semi-brotherly affection; whilst Madame de Vibray retained a more lively, a more tender feeling for the man whom she had known as the most gallant of lovers.
Thomery suddenly ceased talking of his rheumatism:

"But, my dear friend, I do not see that pretty smile which is your greatest charm!
How is that?"
Madame de Vibray looked sad: her beautiful eyes gazed deep into those of Thomery:

"Ah," she murmured, "one cannot be eternally smiling; life sometimes holds painful surprises in store for us."
"Is something worrying you?"
Thomery's tone was one of anxious sympathy.
"Yes and no," was her evasive reply.
There was a silence; then she said:

"It is always the same thing!
I have no hesitation in telling you that, you, my old friend: it is a money wound--happily it is not mortal."
Thomery nodded:

"Well, I declare it is just what I expected!
My poor Mathilde, are you never going to be sensible?"
The Baroness pouted: "You know quite well I am sensible ... only it happens that there are moments when one is short of cash!
Yesterday I asked my bankers to send me fifty thousand francs, and I have not heard a word from them!"
"That is no great matter!
The Barbey-Nanteuil credit cannot be shaken!"
"Oh," cried the Baroness, "I have no fears on that score; but, as a rule, their delay in sending me what I ask for is of the briefest, yet no one has come from them to-day."
Thomery began scolding her gently:

"Ah, Mathilde, that you should be in such pressing need of so large a sum must mean that you have been drawn into some deplorable speculation!
I will wager that you invested in those Oural copper mines after all!"
"I thought the shares were going up," was Madame de Vibray's excuse: she lowered her eyes like a naughty schoolgirl caught in the act.
Thomery, who had risen, and was walking up and down the room, halted in front of her:

"I do beg of you to consult those who know all the ins and outs, persons competent to advise you, when you are bent on plunging into speculations of this description!
The Barbey-Nanteuil people can give you reliable information; I myself, you know..."

"But since it is really of no importance!"
interrupted Madame de Vibray, who had no wish to listen to the remonstrances of her too prudent friend: "What does it matter?
It is my only diversion now!...
I love gambling--the emotions it arouses in one, the perpetual hopes and fears it excites!"
Thomery was about to reply, to argue, to remonstrate further, but the Baroness had caught him glancing at the clock hanging beside the fireplace:

"I am making you dine late," she said in a tone of apology.
Then, with a touch of malice, and looking up at Thomery from under her eyes, to see how he took it:

"You are to be rewarded for having to wait!...
I have invited Princess Sonia Danidoff to dine with you!"
Thomery started.
He frowned.
He again seated himself beside the Baroness:

"You have invited her?..."
"Yes ... and why not?...
I believe this pretty woman is one of your special friends... that you consider her the most charming of all your friends now!..."
Thomery did not take up the challenge: he simply said:

"I had an idea that the Princess was not much to your taste!"
The eyes of Madame de Vibray flashed a sad, strange look on her old friend, as she said gently:

"One can accustom oneself to anything and everything, my dear friend....
Besides, I quite recognise that the Princess deserves the reputation she enjoys of being wonderfully beautiful and also intellectual...."

Thomery did not reply to this: he looked puzzled, annoyed....
The Baroness continued:

"They even say that handsome bachelor, Monsieur Thomery, is not indifferent to her fascinations!...
That, for the first time in his life, he is ready to link ..."

"Oh, as for that!..."
Thomery was protesting, when the door opened, and the Princess Sonia Danidoff rustled into the room, a superbly--a dazzlingly beautiful vision, all audacity and charm.
"Accept all my apologies, dear Baroness," she cried, "for arriving so late; but the streets are so crowded!"
"... And I live such a long way out!"
added Madame de Vibray.
"You live in a charming part," amended the Princess.
Then, catching sight of Thomery:

"Why, you!"
she cried.
And, with a gracious and dignified gesture, the Princess extended her hand, which the wealthy sugar refiner hastened to kiss.
At this moment the double doors were flung wide, and Antoine, with his most solemn air, his most stiff-starched manner, announced:

"Dinner is served!"
"... No," cried she, smiling, whilst she refused the arm offered by her old friend; "take in the Princess, dear friend; I will follow ... by myself!"
Thomery obeyed.
He passed slowly along the gallery into the dining-room with the Princess.
Behind them came the Baroness, who watched them as they went: Thomery, big, muscular, broad-shouldered: Sonia Danidoff, slim, pliant, refined, dainty!
Checking a deep sigh, the Baroness could not help thinking, and her heart ached at the thought:

"What a fine couple they would make!...
What a fine couple they will make!"
But, as she seated herself opposite her guests, she said to herself:

"Bah!...
I must send sad thoughts flying!...
It is high time!"
"My dear Thomery!"
she cried playfully: "I wish--I expect you to show yourself the most charming of men to your delicious neighbour!"
Ten o'clock had struck before Madame de Vibray and her guests left the dinner-table and proceeded to the small drawing-room.
Thomery was allowed to smoke in their presence; besides, the Princess had accepted a Turkish cigarette, and the Baroness had allowed herself a liqueur.
A most excellent dinner and choice wines had loosened tongues, and, in accordance with a prearranged plan, Madame de Vibray had directed the conversation imperceptibly into the channels she wished it to follow.
Thus she learned what she had feared to know, namely, that a very serious flirtation had been going on for some time between Thomery and the Princess; that between this beautiful and wealthy young widow and the millionaire sugar refiner, the flirtation was rapidly developing into something much warmer and more lasting.
So far, the final stage had evidently not been reached; nevertheless, Thomery had suggested, tentatively, that he would like to give a grand ball when he took possession of the new house which he was having built for himself in the park Monceau!...
And had he not been so extremely anxious to secure a partner for the cotillion which he meant to lead!...
Then Madame de Vibray had suggested that the person obviously fitted to play this important part was the Princess Sonia Danidoff!
Who better!
The suggestion was welcomed by both: it was settled there and then.
"Yes," thought the Baroness, "Thomery's marriage is practically arranged, that is evident!...
Well, I must resign myself to the inevitable!"
It was about half-past eleven when Sonia Danidoff rose to take leave of her hostess.
Thomery, hesitating, looked first at his old friend, then at the Princess, asking himself what he ought to do.
Madame de Vibray felt secretly grateful to him for this momentary hesitation.
As a woman whose mourning for a dead love is over, she spoke out bravely:

"Dear friend," said she, "surely you are not going to let the Princess return alone?...
I hope she will allow you to see her safely home?"
The Princess pressed the hands of her generous hostess: she was radiant:

"What a good kind friend you are!"
she cried in an outburst of sincere affection.
Then, with a questioning glance, in which there was a touch of uneasiness, a slight hesitation, she said:

"Ah, do let me kiss you!"
For all reply Madame de Vibray opened her arms; the two women clung together, sealing with their kiss the treaty of peace both wished to keep.
When the humming of the motor-car, which bore off the Princess and Thomery, had died away in the distance, Madame de Vibray retired to her room.
A tear rolled down her cheek:

"A little bit of my heart has gone with them," she murmured.
The poor woman sighed deeply: "Ah, it is my whole heart that has gone!"
There was a discreet knock at the door.
She mastered her emotion.
It was the dignified mistress of the house who said quietly:

"Come in!"
It was Antoine, who presented two letters on a silver salver.
He explained that, believing his mistress to be anxiously awaiting some news, he had ventured to bring up the last post at this late hour.
After bidding Antoine good night, she recalled him to say:

"Please tell the maid not to come up.
I shall not require her.
I can manage by myself."
Madame de Vibray went towards the little writing-table, which stood in one corner of her room; in leisurely fashion she sat down and proceeded to open her letters with a wearied air.
"Why, it's from that nice Jacques Dollon!"
she exclaimed, as she read the first letter she opened: "I was thinking of him at this very minute!"
... "Yes," she went on, as she read, "I shall certainly pay him a visit soon!"
Madame de Vibray put Jacques Dollon's letter in her handbag, recognising on the back of the second letter the initials B. N., which she knew to be the discreet superscription on the business paper of her bankers, Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil.
It was long and closely written, in a fine, regular hand.
When she began to read it her attention was wandering, for her mind was full of Sonia Danidoff and Thomery, and what she had ascertained regarding their relation to each other; but little by little she became absorbed in what she was reading, till her whole attention was taken captive.
As she read on, however, her eyes opened more and more widely, there was a look of keenest anguish in them, her features contracted as if in pain, her bosom heaved, her fingers were trembling under the stress of some intense emotion:

"Oh, my God!
Ah!
My God!"
she gasped out several times in a half-choked voice.
*       *       *       *       *

Silence had reigned for a long while in the smart town house of the Baroness de Vibray in the Avenue Henri-Martin....

From without came no sound; the avenue was quiet, deserted; the night was dark.
But when three o'clock struck, the bedroom of Madame de Vibray was still flooded with light.
She had not left her writing-table since she had read the letter of her bankers, Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil.
She wrote on, and on, without intermission.
III

UNEXPECTED COMPLICATIONS

At nine o'clock in the morning, the staff of that great evening paper, _La Capitale_, were assembled in the vast editorial room, writing out their copy, in the midst of a perfect hubbub of continual comings and goings, of regular shindies, of perpetual discussions.
A stranger entering this room, which among its frequenters went by the name of "The Wild Beasts' Cage," might easily have thought he was witnessing some thirty schoolboys at play in recreation time, instead of being in the presence of famous journalists celebrated for their reports and articles.
Jerome Fandor had no sooner appeared on the threshold than he was accorded a variety of greetings--ironical, cordial, fault-finding, sympathetic.
But he ignored them all; for, like most of those who came into the editorial room at this hour, he was preoccupied with one thing only--where the caprice of his editorial secretary would send him flying for news, in the course of a few minutes?
On what difficult and delicate quest would he be despatched?
It depended on the exigencies of passing events, on how questions of the hour struck the editorial secretary, in relation to Fandor.
Just as he had expected, the editorial secretary called him.
"Hey!
Fandor, come here a minute!
I am on the make-up: what have you got for to-day?"
"I don't know.
Who has charge of the landing of the King of Spain?"
"Maray.
He has just left.
Have you seen the last issue of _l'Havas_?"
"Here it is...."

The two men ran rapidly through the night's telegrams.
"Deplorably empty!"
remarked the editorial secretary.
"But where am I to send you?...
Ah, now I have it!
That article of yours on the rue Norvins affair, yesterday evening, was interesting--it made the others squirm, I know!
Isn't there anything more to be got out of that story?"
"What do you want?"
"Can't you stick in something just a little bit scandalous about the Baroness de Vibray?
Or about Dollon?
About no matter whom, in fact?
After all, it's our one and only crime to-day, and you must put in something under that head!..."
Jerome Fandor seemed to hesitate.
"Would you like me to rake up the past--refer to what happened before?"
"What past?"
"Come now, you must have an inkling of what I refer to!"
"Not I!"
"Ah, my dear fellow, it will not be the first time we have had to mention these personages in our columns!...
Just cast your mind back to the Gurn affair!..."
"Ah, the drama in which a great lady was implicated ... to her detriment!
Lady ... Lady Beltham?"
"You have got it!
These Dollons--Jacques and Elizabeth--did you know it?--happen to be the children of old Dollon, who was murdered in the train--an extraordinary murder!--when on his way to Paris, to give evidence in the Gurn case?"
"Why, of course!
I remember perfectly!"
declared the editorial secretary: "Dollon, the father, was the Marquise de Langrune's steward!...
The old lady who was murdered!...
Isn't that so?"
"That's it!...
But, after the death of his mistress, he entered the service of the Baroness de Vibray, she who was assassinated yesterday!"
"Well, I must say they have not been favoured by fortune," said the secretary jokingly.
"But, look here, Fandor--like father, like son, eh?...
If this young Dollon has murdered Madame de Vibray, doesn't that make you think that his father was the murderer of the Marquise de Langrune?"
Jerome Fandor shook his head:

"No, old boy, yesterday's crime was ordinary, even common-place, but the assassination of the Marquise de Langrune, on the contrary, gave the police no end of bother."
"They did not find out anything, did they?"
"Why, yes!...
Don't you remember?...
Naturally enough, it must all seem rather remote to you, but I have all the details as clearly in mind as if they had happened only yesterday....
The Gurn affair was one of the first I had a hand in, with Juve ... it was in connection with that very affair I made my start here on _La Capitale_.
"[2]

[Footnote 2: See _Fantomas_.]
Fandor grew pale:

"And you were jolly proud of it, eh, Fandor?...
Good Heavens, how you did hold forth about this Juve!
And you regularly fed us up with this villain, so mysterious, so extraordinary, who was never run to earth, could not be captured, was capable of the most inhuman cruelties, capable of devising the most unimaginable tricks and stratagems--this Fantomas!"
Fandor grew pale:

"My dear fellow," said he, "never speak sneeringly or jokingly of Fantomas!...
No doubt it is taken for granted, by the public at any rate, that Fantomas is an invention of Juve and myself: that Fantomas never existed!...
And that because this monster, who is a man of genius, has never been identified; because not a soul has been able to lay hands on him ...; and because, as you know, this fruitless pursuit has cost poor Juve his life...."

"The truth is, this famous detective died a foul death!"
"No!
You are mistaken!
Juve died on the field of honour!
When, after a terribly difficult and dangerous investigation, he succeeded (by this time it was no longer the Gurn-Fantomas affair, but that of the boulevard Inkermann at Neuilly) in cornering Fantomas, he was well aware that he risked his life in entering the bandit's abode.
What happened was that the villain found means to blow up the house, and to bury Juve underneath the ruins.
[3] Fantomas has proved the stronger; but, according to my ideas, Juve has had, none the less, the finest death he could desire--death in the midst of the fight--a useful death!"
[Footnote 3: See _The Exploits of Juve_.]
"Useful?
In what way?..."
"My dear fellow," cried Fandor, in a tone of vigorous denial, "in the opinion of all unprejudiced minds, the death of Juve has proved, proved up to the hilt, the existence of Fantomas.... More, it has forced this villain to disappear; it has restored peace, tranquillity to society.... At the cost of his life, Juve has scored a final triumph, he has deprived Fantomas of the power to do harm--pared his claws in fact."
"The truth is he is never mentioned now by a soul ... for all that, Fandor, only to see you smile!
Why--," and the editorial secretary shook a threatening finger at his colleague: "I'll wager you still believe in Fantomas!...
That one fine day you will write us a rattling good article, announcing some fresh Fantomas crime!"
Jerome Fandor made no direct reply to this--it was useless to try and convince those who had not closely followed the records of crimes perpetrated during recent years: you could not make them believe in the existence of Fantomas.
Fandor _knew_; but, Juve dead, was there another soul who could know the true facts?
All he said was:

"Well, my dear fellow, this does not tell us what we are to fill up the paper with now!...
If the doings connected with Fantomas are frightful, rousing our feelings in the highest degree, I repeat that yesterday's crime bears no resemblance to them: we can put in a paragraph or so--that is all!"
"No way, is there, of compromising anyone with our Baroness de Vibray?"
"I don't think so!
It's a perfectly common-place affair.
An elderly woman patronises a young painter, whose mistress she may or may not be, and she ends up by getting herself assassinated when the young man imagines he is mentioned in her will."
"Ah!
good!
Well, I think you will have to fall back on the opening of the artesian well.
That suit you?"
"Oh, quite all right!...
If you like I can give you my copy in half an hour.
I know who are going to speak at the inauguration ceremony, and I can add names this evening!
You know I am a bit of a specialist as regards reports written beforehand!"
Fandor had got well on with his article: at the rate he was going he would have finished that morning, he thought with pleasure, and would have a free afternoon.
Just then an office boy appeared:

"Monsieur Fandor, you are being asked for at the telephone."
Like most journalists, Fandor was accustomed to reply in nine cases out of ten, in similar cases, that he was not to be found.
On this occasion, however, some interior prompting made him say:

"I will come."
A few minutes later Fandor went up to the editorial secretary:

"Look here, old fellow, something unexpected has happened....
I must go to the Palais de Justice ... you don't want me for anything else this morning, do you?"
"No, go along!
But what's up?"
"Oh ... this Jacques Dollon, you know, the assassin of the rue Norvins?
Well, this imbecile has gone and hanged himself in his cell!"
*       *       *       *       *

At the exit door of _La Capitale_, in the noisy rue Montmartre, crowded with costermongers' barrows, Jerome Fandor hailed a taxi.
"To the Palais!"
Some minutes later he was crossing the hall of the Wandering Footsteps (as it is called), giving rapid, cordial greetings to all the barristers of his acquaintance--one never knew when they might impart a special piece of information which let an enterprising journalist into the know, or put him early on to a good thing--and finally reached the lobbies of the Law Courts proper.
He was saying to himself as he went along:

"He is a good fellow, Jouet!
The news is not known yet!
He telephoned me first!"
His friend Jouet met him, with a warm handshake:

"You did not seem to be in a good temper at the telephone just now, although I was giving you a nice bit of information!"
"Yes," retorted Fandor, "but information which simply proved how much the administrators of justice, to which you have the misfortune to belong, can make egregious mistakes!
When, for once, you succeed in immediately arresting the assassin of someone well known, and are in a position to bring into play all the power and rigour of the law, you are clumsy enough to give the fellow a chance of punishing himself, you let him commit suicide on the very first night of his arrest!"
Fandor had been speaking in a fairly loud voice, as usual, but, at imperative signs made by his friend, he lowered his tones:

"What is it?"
he murmured.
His friend rose:

"What we are going to do, old boy, is to take a turn in the galleries!
I have something to say to you, and, joking apart, you are not to breathe a word of it to a soul--sh?"
"Count on me!"
Presently the two friends found themselves in one of the corridors of the Palais, known only to barristers and those accused of law-breaking.
"Come now!"
cried Fandor, "your assassin has hanged himself, hasn't he?"
"My assassin!"
expostulated the junior barrister: "My assassin!
Allow me to inform you that Jacques Dollon is innocent!"
"Innocent?"
Jerome Fandor shrugged a disbelieving shoulder: "Innocent!
It is the fashion of the day to transform all murderers into innocents!...
What ground have you for making such a declaration of innocence?"
"Here is my ground!
I have just copied it out for you!
Read!..."
Fandor hastened to read the paper handed to him by his friend.
It was headed thus:

"_Copy of a letter brought by Maitre Gerin to the Public      Prosecutor, a letter addressed to Maitre Gerin by the Baroness de      Vibray._"

"Oh, it's a plant!"
cried Fandor.
"Go on reading, you will see...."

Fandor continued:

"_My dear Maitre_,--

_You will forgive me, I am certain of that, for all the      inconvenience I am going to cause you; I turn to you because you      are the only friend in whom I have confidence._

_I have just received a letter from my bankers, Messieurs      Barbey-Nanteuil, of whom I have often spoken to you, who you know      manage all my money affairs for me._

_This letter informs me that I am ruined.
You quite      understand--absolutely, completely ruined._

_The house I am living in, my carriage, the luxurious surroundings      so necessary to me, I shall have to give it all up, so they tell      me._

_These people have dealt me a terrible blow, struck me      brutally...._

_My dear maitre, I learned this only two hours ago, and I am still      stunned by it.
I do not wish to wait for the inevitable moment when      I shall begin to console myself, because I shall begin to hope that      the disaster is exaggerated.
I have no family, I am already old;      apart from the satisfaction it gives me to use my influence on      behalf of youthful talent, and to help forward its development, my      life has no sense in it, it is without aim or object.
My dear      maitre, there are not two ways of announcing to one's friends      resolutions analogous to that I now take: when you receive this      letter I shall be dead._

_I have in front of me, on my writing-table, a tiny phial of poison      which I am going to drink to the last drop, without any weakening      of will, almost without fear, as soon as I have posted this letter      to you myself._

_I must confess that I have an instinctive horror of being dragged      to the Morgue, as happens whenever there is some doubt about a      suicide.
It is on account of this I now write to you, so that,      thanks to your intervention, all the mistakes justice is liable to      make may be avoided._

_I kill myself, I only; that is certain._

_No one must be incriminated in connection with my death, if it be      not Fatality, which has caused my ruin.
I once more apologise, my      dear maitre, for all the measures you will be forced to take owing      to my death, and I beg you to believe that my friendship for you      was very sincere:_

_Signed:_

BARONESS DE VIBRAY."
"Good for you!"
cried Fandor.
"Here's a go!
What a pretty petard in prospect!...
Jacques Dollon was innocent; you arrest him; he is so terrified that he hangs himself!
Well, old boy, I must say you make some fine blunders on Clock Quay!"
"It is nobody's fault!"
protested the young barrister.
"That is to say," retorted Fandor, "it is everybody's fault!
By Jove!
If you let innocent prisoners hang themselves in their cells, I am no longer surprised that you leave the guilty at liberty to walk the streets at their sweet will!"
"Don't make a joke of it, old boy!...
You understand, of course, that so far no one in the Palais has seen the letter!
It has just been brought to the Public Prosecutor's office by Madame de Vibray's solicitor, Maitre Gerin.
You came on the scene only a few minutes after I had sent up the original to the examining magistrate.
The case is in Fuselier's hands."
"Is he in his office?"
"Certainly!
He should proceed with the examination relative to poor Dollon this morning."
"Very well then, I will go up.
I shall jolly soon get out of this booby of a Fuselier the information I need to make one of the best reports I have ever written.
And you know, I am ever so obliged to you for the matter you've given me!
But, mind you, I am going to put together a bit of copy that will not deal tenderly with our gentlemen of the robe--the lot of you!
No, it is a bad, unlucky business enough, but it is even more funny--it is tragi-comedy!"
"For my part ..." began Fandor's barrister friend.
"Yes, yes!
Good day, Pontius Pilate!"
cried Fandor.
"I am going up to Fuselier.... We must meet to-morrow!"
Hastening along the corridors, Fandor gained the office of the examining magistrate.
*       *       *       *       *

Fandor had known the magistrate a long while.
Was not Fuselier the justice who, with Detective Juve, had had everything to do with the strangely mysterious cases associated with the name of Fantomas?
In the course of his various judicial examinations he had often been able to give Fandor information and help.
At first hostile to the constant preoccupation of Juve and Fandor--for long the arrest of Fantomas was their one aim--the young magistrate had gradually come to believe in what had seemed to him nothing but the detective's hypothesis.
Open-minded, gifted with an alert intelligence, Fuselier had carefully followed the investigations of Juve and Fandor.
He knew every detail, every vicissitude connected with the tracking of this elusive bandit.
Since then the magistrate had taken the deepest interest in the pursuit of the criminal.
Thanks to his support, Juve had been enabled to take various measures, otherwise almost impossible, avoid the many obstacles offered by legal procedure, risk the striking of many a blow he could not otherwise have ventured on.
Fuselier had a high opinion of Juve, and his attitude to Fandor was sympathetic.
Our journalist was going over the past as he hastened along:

Ah, if only Juve were here!
If only this loyal servant of Justice, this sincerest of friends, this bravest of the brave, had not been struck down, Fandor would have been full of enthusiasm for the Dollon affair; for its interest was increasing, its mystery deepening!
But Fandor was single-handed now!
He had had a miraculous escape from the bomb which had blown up Lady Beltham's house on that tragic day when Juve had all but laid hands on Fantomas!
But Fandor would not allow himself to become disheartened--never that!
In the school of his vanished friend he had learned to give himself up with single-minded devotion to any task he took up; his sole satisfaction being duty well fulfilled.... Well, the Dollon case should be cleared up!...
To do so was to render a service to humanity!
Having come to this conclusion he hastened to interview Monsieur Fuselier.
*       *       *       *       *

"Monsieur Fuselier," cried Fandor as he shook hands with the magistrate, "you must know quite well why I have come to see you!"
"About the rue Norvins affair?"
"Say rather about the Depot affair!
It is there the affair became tragic."
Monsieur Fuselier smiled:

"You know then?"
"That Jacques Dollon has hanged himself?
Yes.
That he was innocent?
Again, yes!"
confessed Fandor, smiling in his turn: "You know that at _La Capitale_ we get all the information going, and are the first to get it!"
"Evidently," conceded the magistrate.
"But if you know all about it, why put my professional discretion to the torture by asking absurd questions?"
"Now, what the deuce are they about on Clock Quay?
Don't they supervise the accused in their cells?"
"Certainly they do!
When this Dollon arrived at the Depot he was immediately conducted to Monsieur Bertillon: there he was measured and tested, finger marks taken, and so on."
"Just so," said Fandor.
"I saw Bertillon before coming on to you.
He told me Dollon seemed crushed: he submitted to all the tests without making the slightest objection; but he never spoke of suicide, never said anything which could lead one to imagine such a fatal termination."
"Well, he would not cry it aloud on the housetops!...
When he left Monsieur Bertillon, what then?"
"After!...
Oh, the police took him to a cell, and left him there.
At midnight the chief warder made his rounds and saw nothing abnormal.
It was in the morning they found this unfortunate Dollon had hanged himself."
"What did he hang himself with?"
"With strips of his shirt twisted into a rope.... Oh, my dear fellow, I see what you are thinking!
You fancy that there has been a want of common prudence--that the warders were lax--that they had let him retain his braces, his cravat or his shoe laces!...
Well, it was not so--precautions were taken."
"And this suicide remains incomprehensible!"
"Well!...
This wretched youth must have been ferociously energetic, because he had fastened these shirt ropes of his to the iron bars of his bed, and strangled himself by lying on his back.
Death must have been long in coming to release him from his agony."
"Can I not see him?"
asked Fandor.
"Why not photograph him?"
asked the magistrate in a bantering tone.
"Oh, if it were possible!..."
Fandor stopped short.
A youth knocked and entered:

"A lady, who wishes to see you, monsieur."
"Tell her I am too busy."
"She asked me to say that it is urgent."
"Ask her name."
"Here is her card, monsieur."
Monsieur Fuselier looked at the card: he started!
"Elizabeth Dollon!...
Ah ... Good Heavens, what am I to say to this poor girl?
How am I to tell her?"
Just then the door was pushed violently open, and a girl, in tears, rushed towards him:

"Monsieur, where is my brother?"
"But, mademoiselle!..."
Whilst the magistrate mechanically asked his distracted visitor to sit down, Jerome Fandor discreetly withdrew to the further side of the room; he was anxious that the magistrate should forget his presence, so that he might be a witness of what promised to be a most exciting interview.
"Pray control yourself, mademoiselle," begged the magistrate.
"Your brother has perhaps been arrested through a mistake...."

"Oh, monsieur, I am sure of it, but it is frightful!"
"Mademoiselle, the dreadful thing would be that he was guilty."
"But they have not set him at liberty yet?
He has not been able to clear himself?"
"Yes, yes, mademoiselle, he has vindicated himself, I even ..." Monsieur Fuselier stopped short, intensely pained, not knowing how to tell Elizabeth Dollon the terrible news.
At once she cried: "Ah, monsieur, you hesitate!
You have learned something fresh?
You are on the track of the assassins?"
"It is certain ... your brother is not guilty!"
The poor girl's countenance suddenly brightened.
She had passed a horrible night after her return to Paris, and the receipt of the wire from Police Headquarters.
"What a nightmare!"
she cried.
"But the telegram said he was injured--nothing serious, is it?...
Where is he now?
Can I see him?"
"Mademoiselle," said the magistrate, "your brother has had a terrible shock!...
It would be better!...
I fear that!..."
Suddenly Elizabeth Dollon cried:

"Oh, monsieur, how you said that!
How can seeing me do him harm?"
As Monsieur Fuselier did not reply, she burst into tears:

"You are hiding something from me!
The papers said this morning that he also was a victim!
Swear to me that he is not?"
"But ..."

"You _are_ hiding something from me!"
The poor girl was frantic with terror: she wrung her hands in a state of despair: "Where is he?
I must see him!
Oh, take pity on me!"
As she watched the magistrate's downcast look, his air of discomfiture, the horrid truth flashed on Elizabeth Dollon:

"Dead!"
she cried.
She was shaken with sobs.
"Mademoiselle!...
Oh, mademoiselle!"
implored the magistrate, filled with pity.
He tried to find some words of consolation, and this confirmed her worst fears:

"I swear to you!...
It is certain your brother was not guilty!"
The distracted girl was beyond listening to the magistrate's words!
Huddled up in an arm-chair, she lay inert, collapsed.
Presently she rose like a person moving in some mad dream, her eyes wild:

"Take me to him!...
I want to see him!
They have killed him for me!...
I must see him!"
Such was her insistence, the violence with which she claimed the right to go to her brother, to kneel beside him, that Monsieur Fuselier dared not refuse her this consolation.
"Control yourself, I beg of you!
I am going to take you to him; but, for Heaven's sake, be reasonable!
Control yourself!"
With his eyes he sought for the moral support of Fandor, whose presence he suddenly remembered.
But our journalist, taking advantage of the momentary confusion, had quietly slipped from the room.
Evidently some unpleasant occurrence had upset the routine existence of the functionaries at the Depot.
The warders were coming and going, talking among themselves, leaning against the doors of the numerous cells.
The chief warder called one of his men:

"There must be no more of this disorder, Nibet!"
The chief warder was furious: he was about to hold forth to his subordinate, when an inspector approached.
"What is it?"
he asked.
"Sergeant, it is Monsieur Jouet.
He has a gentleman with him.
He has a permit.
Should I allow him to enter?"
"Who?
Monsieur Jouet?"
"No, the gentleman accompanying him!"
"Hang it all!
Why, yes--if he has a permit!"
The sergeant moved away shrugging his shoulders disgustedly.
"Not pleased with things this morning, the chief isn't," one of the warders remarked.
"Not likely, after last night's performance!"
"It's he who will catch it hot over this business!"
The warder rubbed his hands, laughing.
Meanwhile, Fandor had appeared at the entrance of the corridor, under the guidance of a warder.
He was thinking of the splendid copy he had secured: he was hoping that when Fuselier learned that a journalist had obtained admittance to the Depot, and had seen the corpse of Jacques Dollon in his cell, that he would not turn vicious: "But after all," said he to himself, "Fuselier is not the man to give me the go-by out of spite."
Fandor walked up and down the hall of the prison.
He had informed the warders that he was waiting for the magistrate.
"How strange life is!"
thought he.
"To think that once again I should be brought into close contact with Elizabeth Dollon, and that there is no likelihood of her recognising me--we were such children when we parted--she especially!
Had she any recollection of the little rascal I was at the time of poor Madame de Langrune's assassination?"
And, closing his eyes, Fandor tried to call to mind the features of the Jacques Dollon he used to know: it was useless!
The body of Jacques Dollon he would be gazing at in a few minutes would be that of an unknown person, whose name alone awakened memories of bygone days....
So to pass the time Fandor continued his marching up and down.
Monsieur Fuselier appeared at the entrance to the Depot, supporting the unsteady steps of poor Elizabeth Dollon.
Fandor quickly drew back into an obscure corner:

"Better not attract attention to myself just at present," thought Fandor; "I will wait until the cell door is opened.
If Fuselier does not wish to give me permission to remain, I can at any rate cast a rapid glance round that ill-omened little cell!"
Fandor followed, at a distance, the wavering steps of the poor girl whom Monsieur Fuselier was supporting with fatherly care.
When they paused before one of the cells pointed out by the head warder, Monsieur Fuselier turned to Elizabeth Dollon:

"Do you think you are strong enough to bear this trial, mademoiselle?...
You are determined to see your brother?"
Elizabeth bent her head; the magistrate turned towards the warder:

"Open," said he.
As the key was turned in the lock he said: "According to instructions from the Head, we have placed him on his bed again....
There is nothing to frighten you ... he seems to be asleep.... Now then!"
But as he opened the door, stretching his arm in the direction of the bed where the body of Jacques Dollon should be, an oath escaped him:

"Great Heavens!
The dead man is gone!"
In this cell with its bare walls, its sole furniture an iron bedstead and a stool riveted to the floor, in this little cell which the eye could glance round in a second, there was no vestige of a corpse: Jacques Dollon's body was not there!
"You have mistaken the cell," said the magistrate sharply.
"No, no!"
cried the astounded warder.
"You can see, can't you, that Jacques Dollon is not there?"
"He was there a few minutes ago!"
"Then they must have taken him somewhere else!"
"The keys have never left me!"
"Oh, come now!"
"No, sir.
He was there ... now he isn't there!
That's all I know!...
Hey!
You down there!"
yelled the warder: "Who knows what has become of the corpse of cell 12?...
The corpse we laid out just now?"
One after the other the warders came running.
All confirmed what their chief had said: the dead body of Jacques Dollon had been left there, lying on the bed: not a soul had entered the cell: not a soul had touched the corpse!...
Yet it was no longer there!
Jerome Fandor, well in the background, followed the scene with an ironical smile.
The frantic warders, the growing stupefaction of Monsieur Fuselier, amused him prodigiously.
The magistrate was trying to understand the how, why, and wherefore of this incredible disappearance:

"As this man is not here, he cannot have been dead ... he has escaped ... but if he wanted to escape he must have been guilty!...
Oh, I cannot make head or tail of it!"
Seizing the head warder by the shoulders, almost roughly, Monsieur Fuselier asked:

"Look here, chief, was this man dead, or was he not?"
Elizabeth Dollon was repeating:

"He lives!
He lives!"
and laughing wildly.
The warder raised his hand as though taking a solemn oath:

"As to being dead, he was dead right enough!...
The doctor will tell you so, too: also my colleague, Favril, who helped me to lay out the body on the bed."
"But how can a dead body get away from here?
If he _was_ dead, he could not have escaped!"
said the magistrate.
"It is witchcraft!"
declared the warder, with a shrug.
Fuselier flew into a rage:

"Had you not better confess that you and your colleagues did not keep proper watch and ward!...
The investigation will show on whose shoulders the responsibility rests."
"But, sakes alive, monsieur!"
expostulated the warder: "There aren't only two of us who have seen him dead!...
There are all the hospital attendants of the Depot as well!...
There is the doctor, and there are my colleagues to be counted in: the truth is, monsieur, some fifty persons have seen him dead!"
"So you say!"
cried the impatient magistrate: "I am going to inform the Public Prosecutor of what has happened, and at once!"
As he was hurrying away, he spied Jerome Fandor, who had not missed a single detail of the scene.
"You again!"
exclaimed the irate magistrate: "How did you get in here?"
"By permit," replied our journalist.
"Well, you have learned what there is to know, haven't you?
Be off, then!
You are one too many here!...
Frankly, there is no need for you to augment the scandal!...
Will you, therefore, be kind enough to take yourself off?"
And Fuselier, almost beside himself with rage, raced off to the Public Prosecutor's office.
After the magistrate's furious attack, Fandor could not possibly linger in the corridors of the Depot.
The warders, too, were pressing their attentions on him and on Elizabeth Dollon:

"This way, monsieur!...
Madame, this way!...
Ah, it's a wretched business!...
Here, this way!
This way!...
Be off, as fast as you can!"
Presently Fandor was descending the grand staircase of the Palais, steadying the uncertain steps of poor Elizabeth Dollon.
"I implore you to help me!"
she cried: "Help me: help us!
My brother is guiltless--I could swear to that!...
He must--must be found!...
This hideous nightmare must end!"
"Mademoiselle, I ask nothing better, only ... where to find him?"
"Ah, I have no idea, none!...
I implore you, you who must know influential people in high places, do not leave any stone unturned, do all that is humanly possible to save him--to save us!"
Intensely moved by the poor girl's anguish of mind, Fandor could not trust himself to speak.
He bent his head in the affirmative merely.
Hailing a cab, he put her into it, gave the address to the driver, and as he was closing the door Elizabeth cried:

"Do all that is humanly possible--do everything in the world!"
"I swear to you I will get at the truth," was Fandor's parting promise.
The cab had disappeared, but our journalist stood motionless, absorbed in his reflections.
At last, uttering his thoughts aloud, he said:

"If the Baroness de Vibray has written that she has killed herself, then she has killed herself, and Dollon is innocent.
It's true the letter may be fictitious ... therefore we must put it aside--we have no guarantee as to its genuineness....
Here is the problem: Jacques Dollon is dead, and yet has left the Depot!
Yes, but how?"
Jerome Fandor went off in the direction of the offices of _La Capitale_ so absorbed in thought that he jostled the passers-by, without noticing the angry glances bestowed on him:

"Jacques Dollon, dead, has left the Depot!"
He repeated this improbable statement, so absurd, of necessity incorrect; repeated it to the point of satiety:

"Jacques Dollon is dead, and he has got away from the Depot!"
Then, in an illuminating flash, he perceived the solution of this apparently insoluble problem:

"A mystery such as this is incomprehensible, inexplicable, impossible, except in connection with one man!
There is only one individual in the world capable of making a dead man seem to be alive after his death--and this individual is--Fantomas!"
To formulate this conclusion was to give himself a thrilling shock....
Since the disappearance of Juve, he had never had occasion to suspect the presence, the intervention of Fantomas in connection with any of the crimes he had investigated as reporter and student of human nature.
Fantomas!
The sound of that name evoked the worst horrors!
Fantomas!
This bandit, this criminal who has not shrunk from any cruelty, any horror--Fantomas is crime personified!
Fantomas!
He sticks at nothing!
Pronouncing these syllables of evil omen, Fandor lived over again all the extraordinary, improbable, impossible things that had really happened, and had put him on the watch for this terrifying assassin.
Fantomas!
It was certain that to whatever degree he had participated in the assassination of the Baroness de Vibray, one must not be astonished at anything; neither at anything inconceivable, nor at any mysterious details connected with the murder.
Fantomas!
He was the daring criminal--daring beyond all bounds of credibility.
And whatever might be the dexterity, the ingenuity, the ability, the devotion of those who were pursuing him, such were his tricks, such his craft and cunning, such the fertility of his invention, so well conceived his devices, so great his audacity, that there were grounds for fearing he would never be brought to justice, and punished for his abominable crimes!
Fantomas!
Ah, if life ever brought Jerome Fandor and this bandit face to face, there would ensue a struggle of every hour, day, and moment--a struggle of the most terrible nature, a struggle in which man was pitted against man, a struggle without pity, without mercy--a fight to the death!
Fantomas would assuredly defend himself with all the immense elusive powers at his command: Jerome Fandor would pursue him with heart and soul, with his very life itself!
It was not only to satisfy his sense of duty at the promptings of honour that the journalist would take action: he would have as guide for his acts, and to animate his will, the passion of hate, and the hope of avenging his friend Juve, fallen a victim to the mysterious blows of Fantomas.
*       *       *       *       *

In his article for _La Capitale_ Fandor did not directly mention the possible participation of Fantomas in the crime of the rue Norvins.
When it was finished he returned to his modest little flat on the fifth floor in the rue Bergere.
He was about to enter the vestibule, when he noticed a piece of paper, which must have been slipped under his door.
He stooped and picked up an envelope:

"Why, it is a letter--and there is no name and no stamp on it!"
Entering his study, he seated himself at his table and prepared to begin work.
Then he bethought him of the letter, which he had carelessly thrown on the mantelpiece.
He tore it open, and drew out a sheet of letter paper.
"Whatever is this?"
he cried.
His astonishment was natural enough, for the message was oddly put together.
To prevent his handwriting being recognised, Fandor's correspondent had cut letters out of a newspaper, and had stuck them together in the desired order.
The two or three lines of printed matter were as follows:

"Jerome Fandor, pay attention, great attention!
The affair on which      you are concentrating all your powers is worthy of all possible      interest, but may have terribly dangerous consequences."
Of course there was no signature.
Evidently the warning referred to the Dollon case.
"Why," exclaimed Fandor, "this is simply an invitation not to busy myself hunting for the guilty persons!...
Who has sent this invitation and warning?
Surely the sender is the assassin, to whose interest it is that the inquiry into the rue Norvins murder should be dropped!...
It must be Jacques Dollon!...
But how could Dollon know my address?
How could he have found time between his flight from the Depot and the present minute, to put this message of printed letters together, and take it to the rue Bergere?...
And that at the risk of encountering someone who could recognise him, and might have him arrested afresh?
Had he accomplices?"
Fandor was puzzled, agitated:

"But I am mad!...
mad!
It cannot be Dollon!...
Dollon is dead--dead as a door nail--dead beyond dispute, because fifty men have seen him dead; dead, because the Depot doctors have certified his death!"
Daylight was fading; evening was coming on; Fandor was still turning the whole affair over in his mind.
Every now and again he murmured:

"Fantomas!
Fantomas has to do with this extraordinary, this mysterious affair!
Fantomas is in it!...
Fantomas!"
IV

A SURPRISING ITINERARY

Jerome Fandor had passed a bad night!
Visions of horror had continually arisen in his troubled mind.
Between nightmare after nightmare he had heard all the horrors of the night sound out in the darkness and the glimmering dawn.
Then he had fallen into a heavy sleep, which had left him on awaking broken with fatigue.
He had given himself a cold douche, and this had calmed his nerves; then he had dressed quickly.
When eight o'clock struck he was at his writing-table, thinking things over:

"It's no laughing matter.
I thought at first that the Dollon affair was quite ordinary; but I am mistaken.
The warning I received last night leaves me no doubts on that head.
Since the guilty person thinks it necessary to ask me to keep quiet, it is evident he fears my intervention; if he is afraid of that it is because it must be hurtful to him; if disastrous to him, a criminal, it is evident that it must be useful to honest folk.
My duty, then, is to go straight ahead at all costs...."

There was another motive besides this of duty which incited him to follow more closely the vicissitudes of the rue Norvins drama, a motive still indefinite, vague, but nevertheless terribly strong....

Jerome Fandor had sworn to Elizabeth Dollon that he would get at the truth.
He recalled the girl's entreaty, her emotion; and when he closed his eyes, now and again, he seemed to see before him the tall, graceful, fair and fascinating sister of the vanished artist.... All Fandor would admit to himself was a chivalrous feeling towards her--Elizabeth Dollon was worth putting himself out for--that was all!
Our journalist spent the entire morning seated at his writing-table, his head between his hands, smoking cigarette after cigarette, arranging his plans for investigating the Dollon case:

"What I have to find out is how the dead man left the Depot.
It is the first discovery to be made, the first impossibility to be explained--yes, and how am I to set about it?"
Suddenly Fandor jumped up, marched rapidly up and down his room, whistled a few bars of a popular melody, and in his exuberant gaiety attempted an operatic air in a voice deplorably out of tune.
"There are eighty chances out of a hundred that I shall not succeed," cried he; "but that still leaves me twenty chances of arriving at a satisfactory result--let us make the attempt!"
As Fandor was hurrying off, he called to the portress in passing:

"Madame Oudry, I don't know whether I shall be back this evening or no.
Perhaps I may have to leave Paris for awhile, so would you be kind enough to pay particular attention to any letters that may come for me--be very particular about them, please!"
Fandor went off.
A thought struck him.
He turned back.
He had something more to say to the good woman:

"I forgot to ask you whether anyone called to see me yesterday afternoon!"
"No, Monsieur Fandor, no one!"
"Good!
If by any chance a messenger should bring a letter for me, look very carefully at him, Madame Oudry.
I have a colleague or two who are playing a joke on me, and I should not be sorry to get even with them!"
This time Fandor really went off, having set his portress on the alert.
In the rue Montmartre he hailed a cab:

"To the National Library!
And as quick as you can!"
*       *       *       *       *

"By Jove!
It's three o'clock!
I've not a minute to lose!"
cried Fandor as he got back his stick from the cloak-room of the National Library: he had handed it in there some hours ago.
He entered the rue Richelieu.
Now for an ironmonger's shop!
He caught sight of one and went in:

"I should like fifty yards of fine cord, please; very strong and very pliable," said Fandor.
The shopkeeper stared at the smart young man:

"What do you want it for, sir?...
I have various qualities."
Without the trace of a smile, and as if it were the most natural thing in the world, he replied:

"It is for one of my friends: he wants to hang himself!"
A shout of laughter was the response to this witticism, and the amused shopkeeper forthwith displayed various samples of cords.
Fandor promptly made his choice and left the shop.
"Now for a watchmaker's!"
said our journalist.
He entered a jeweller's close by:

"I want an alarum clock--a small one--the cheapest you have!"
Provided with his alarum, Fandor looked at his watch again:

"Confound it all!
It's half-past three!"
he cried.
He signalled to a closed cab:

"To the Palais de Justice!
As hard as you can lick!"
Directly Fandor was well inside the vehicle, he drew down the blinds; took off his coat; unbuttoned his waistcoat!...
*       *       *       *       *

The great clock of the Palais de Justice had just struck four, and its silvery tones were echoing harmoniously along the corridors when Jerome Fandor entered the tradesman's gallery.
He turned to the right, and gained the little lobby in which the cloak-room is.
He quietly entered it.
Barristers were coming and going, full of business, throwing off their gowns, inspecting the letters put aside during the sittings of the Courts.
Fandor made his way among the groups with the ease of custom.
He seemed to be looking for someone, and finished by questioning one of the women employed in the cloak-room:

"Is Madame Marguerite not here?"
"Oh, yes, monsieur, she is down below."
Madame Marguerite was an old friend of Fandor's.
She was head of the cloak-room staff, and by her kind offices she had often obtained an interview for our journalist with one or other of the big-wigs of the bar, who generally object strongly to being questioned by journalists.
When she appeared, Fandor told her he only wanted a little bit of information from her.
"Oh, yes, I know all about that!
There is someone you wish to see, and you want me to manage it for you!"
"No!
Not a bit of it!
What I want to know is, where these gentlemen of the Court of Justice robe and unrobe?
I mean the Justices of the Assize Courts!"
This seemed to astonish Madame Marguerite considerably:

"But, Monsieur Fandor, if you wish to interview one of the puisne judges, it would be ten times quicker for you to go and see him at his own home: here, at the Palais, it's almost certain he will refuse to answer you...."

"Don't bother about that, Madame Marguerite!
Just tell me where these worthy guardians of order, defenders of right and justice, divest themselves of their red robes?"
Madame Marguerite was too much accustomed to our young journalist's ridiculous questions and absurd requests and remarks to argue with him any longer.
"The robing-room of these gentlemen," said she, "is in one of the outer offices of the court, near the Council Chamber."
"There is an assistant in that room, isn't there?"
"Yes, Monsieur Fandor."
"Ah!
That is just what I wanted to know!
Many thanks, madame," and Fandor, grinning with satisfaction, made off in the direction of the Court of Assizes.
He ran up the steps leading to the Council Chamber, and spying the messenger asked:

"Can President Guechand see me, do you think?"
"Monsieur le President has gone."
Fandor seemed to be reflecting.
He gazed searchingly round the room.
As a matter of fact, he was verifying the correctness of Madame Marguerite's information.
All round the room Fandor saw the little presses where the men of law kept their red robes.
Yes, it was the robing and unrobing room of the puisne judges, the magistrates, right enough!
"So the President has gone?
Ah, well ..." Fandor hesitated: he must think of some other name.
He noticed the visiting cards nailed to each press, indicating the owner.
He read one of the names and repeated it:

"Well, then, could Justice Hubert see me--could he possibly?
Will you ask him to let me see him for five minutes?"
"What name shall I say?"
"My name will not tell him anything.
Please say it is with reference to the--er--Peyru case--and I come from Maitre Tissot."
"I will go and see," said the messenger, moving off.
Whilst he was in sight Fandor walked up and down in the regulation way, murmuring:

"Maitre Tissot!...
The Peyru case!...
Go ahead, my good fellow!
You will have a nice kind of reception down below there--with those made-up names."
Some minutes later, the messenger returned to his post, prepared to inform the importunate young man that he could not possibly be received by Justice Hubert.
He stopped short on the threshold: not a soul was to be seen!
"Wherever has that young man got to?
Taken himself off, most likely!...
I expect he was one of those lawyer's clerks--confound them!
A nice fool I should have looked if his Honour, Justice Hubert, had said he would receive him!"
With this reflection the messenger went back to his newspaper, not without having ascertained that it was four o'clock, and therefore he had still an hour to wait before he could have his coffee and cigar at the "Men of the Robe."
*       *       *       *       *

Through the great windows of the Court of Assizes, carefully closed as they were, not a ray of moonlight filtered into the court room.
And this obscurity lent an added terror to a silence as profound as the grave, a silence which, with the falling shades of night, assumed possession of the vast hall, where so many criminals had listened to the fatal sentence--the sentence of death.
*       *       *       *       *

When the Court had risen, the assistants had, as usual, proceeded to put the place in order; then the police sergeant had made his rounds, and had gone away, double locking the doors behind him.
After this the chamber had gradually sunk into complete repose: a repose which would be broken the following morning when the bustling routine of the legal day commenced once more.
Little by little, too, the many and varied noises, which had echoed and re-echoed the whole day through in the galleries of the Palais de Justice, had died down, and sunk into silence.
The custodians had made their last round; the barristers had quitted the robing-room; the poor wretches who had slunk in to warm themselves at the heating apparatus in the halls had shuffled back to the cold street, and the whistling blasts of the north wind.
The immense pile was entirely deserted.
A clock began to strike.
Then, hardly had the last stroke of eleven sounded, awakening the echoes of the empty galleries, than in the Court of Assizes itself, under the monumental desk, before which the justices sat in state by day, a noise made itself heard, long, strident, nerve-racking--the noise of an alarum clock!
Just as the alarum ceased its raucous call, a loud yawn resounded through the empty spaces of the chamber.
The sleeper, who had selected this spot that he might indulge, all undisturbed, in a revivifying sleep, evidently took no pains to smother the sound of his voice, for, after yawning enough to dislocate his jaws, he uttered a loud: "Ah!"
He accompanied his yawns with exclamations:

"It's a fact, the Republic doesn't do things up to the scratch!
The rugs here are of poor quality!...
I'm aching all over!...
The floor is strewn with peach kernels--surely?...
At any rate, it's a quiet hotel, and one is not disturbed--a truly delectable refuge to have a jolly good snore in!"
The sleeper sat up:

"What's the time exactly?
Let us have a light on it!"
A match was struck, and a tiny flare of light shone from under the desk of the presiding judge:

"Ten past eleven!
I've still five minutes to be lazy in--and I shall need all of it, for I've a rough night before me!
I can rest awhile, and think things over!"
The speaker calmly lay down again, trying to find a comfortable position on what he christened mentally: "The administrative peach kernels":

"Let me see, now!"
he went on aloud.
"At five in the afternoon it was known that Jacques Dollon had committed suicide; was probably innocent, and that his corpse had disappeared.
Yesterday, at half-past five, _La Capitale_ announced that he had a very pretty sister.... To-night at ten past eleven behold me, shut up quite alone in the Palais de Justice, free to proceed to the little investigation I think of making.... Jerome Fandor, my dear friend, I congratulate you!
You have not managed badly!...
"Yes," went on our journalist, "what a joke it is!
Here have I got myself shut up in the Palais without the slightest difficulty!
It is true, that if the assistant had been obliged to open, and verify, the contents of all the robing-rooms of all the judges, he would never have finished.
As for me, in my cupboard, I followed all the good fellow's movements, and he never suspected my presence.
If I am to be congratulated, he cannot be blamed for it!
There I was, there I remained, and now I must be off!"
Fandor drew a small wax taper from his pocket and lighted it with a match.
"What's to be done with the alarum?"
he went on.
"To leave it will be to betray my having passed this way--what of it?...
In any case, even if this reporting job fails, I shall make a story out of it ... and how can they accuse me of stealing if I leave my cloak as a gift for his judgeship!"
Laughing, Fandor piled up the law books lying on the desk, and placed the alarum on the top; that done, he went to the principal entrance, the only one with double doors.
He seized the heavy iron bar placed across the door and worked it loose.
He drew the two leaves of the door towards him; and, although it had been locked as usual, he effected his escape, after a considerable trial of strength.
Out on the stairs, lighted taper in hand, the laughing Fandor closed the two leaves of the door with the utmost care, and went forward whistling a marching tune.
His objective was a certain little staircase leading to the top story of the Palais, and this he mounted with vigorous determination.
There was no likelihood of chance encounters, for there was not a soul in the vast building: the police were making their rounds outside it.
Our adventurous journalist did not make his way upwards with stealthy tread--there was no need for that.
Having gained the top floor, he went straight to a corner where an ebony ladder was ensconced, a ladder which had long been the joy and pride of the grand master of this part of the Palais, the amiable Monsieur Peter.
"Pretty heavy!"
grumbled Fandor, as he carried it upwards.
Under the roof he caught sight of a skylight, rested his ebony ladder against it, and climbed briskly on to the roof.
From thence Fandor had a view that was fairy-like.
Spread out in the distance were the sparkling lights of Paris.
He was divided from them by the vast mass of roofs about him, by a gulf of empty space, and beyond, by a dark blur--the two arms of the Seine flowing on either side of the Palais de Justice....
The mysterious darkness!
The fascination of the sparkling points of light!...
Fandor gave himself a mental shake....
This was no moment for dreaming under the stars!
From his pocket he took a tiny, folding dark lantern; from his pocket-book he drew a paper, which he spread out and proceeded to study.
As he bent over it, he murmured:

"A bit of good luck that I was able to get hold of a complete and detailed plan of the Palais de Justice!
Without it I never could have found my way among these roofs!"
He examined the plan for some minutes; made a note of various landmarks; then refolding it, he gained one of the sloping roofs facing the quay of the Leather Dressers:

"Now," thought Fandor, "I must be just above the Depot!
And now to find out how Jacques Dollon, dead or living, has got out of the Depot!
No use thinking of a window, for the cell has not got one!
Fuselier has reason on his side when he declares that you do not get out of the cells of the Depot, nor out of the Palais!...
Well, now--to carry off Dollon, dead or living, by way of the Palais Square, or by the boulevard, is out of the question: there are too many people about!...
To carry him off by one of the exits, on to either of the quays, is equally out of the question: there are the sentries, in the first place, and then comes the Seine--then Jacques Dollon has left the Depot, or he has not, or, at any rate, he is still somewhere in the Palais--unless ..."

Fandor interrupted his cogitations to light a cigarette: smoking helped him to think things out:

"It is equally certain that if Dollon is still in the Palais, he cannot be in the Depot, for the Depot has been rigorously searched since his disappearance, and he would most certainly have been found, had he been anywhere about the Depot.
It is also certain that he is not inside the Palais, because the only means of communication between the Depot and the Palais is a single staircase, and it is certain that a corpse could not have been taken that way unperceived.... Then it follows that Jacques Dollon must have got out by the only ways which are in communication with the Depot: that is to say, the drains and the chimneys!"
"How could he have got out, or been got out by the drains?
As far as I know, there is no system of pipes large enough to allow of the passage of a man through the pipes which join the main sewers; but, as a set-off to that, there is a chimney--the ancient chimney of Marie Antoinette--which communicates with the Depot, and the roof I am now on: it must have been by this chimney that the escape was made!
Let us see whether this is so or not!"
By the light of his tiny dark lantern Fandor studied afresh the plan of the Palais, and tried to identify the various chimneys about him.
He soon picked out the orifice of Marie Antoinette's chimney.
After a considering glance at it, he remarked:

"That's odd!
Here is the only chimney whose opening is below the ledge of the roofs!
It is certain that unless one had been warned, and had examined this roof from some neighbouring building, the orifice of this chimney would not be noticed.
If Jacques Dollon passed out by it, no one would notice his exit!"
Our journalist continued his examination, full of excitement.
Surely he was on the right track!
"Ah!
Ah!
Here are stones freshly scraped and scratched!"
he cried delightedly.
"And this white mark is just the kind of mark which would be made by a cord scraping against the wall!
And look what a size this chimney is!
It's not only one Jacques Dollon who could pass out by it, but two!
But three!
A whole army!
Ah, ha, I believe I am on the right track!
Now for it!"
Fandor bent over and looked down the interior of the chimney; and, at the risk of toppling over, he managed to reach something he saw shining in the darkness of the opening; he drew himself up, radiant:

"By Jove!
There are irons fixed in the walls of the chimney to climb up and down by; and, what is more, they bear traces of a recent passage--the rust has been rubbed off here and there!...
Yes, it is by this way Dollon has come out!...
To whom else could it be an advantage to use this as an exit from the interior of the Palais, on to the roofs?"
Fandor was keen on the scent!
Here, indeed, was matter for an article which would bring him into notice--good business for a journalist!
"If Dollon had been alive," reflected Fandor, "it is evident that, once on the roofs, he had a choice of three ways to escape: he could do what I have just done, but the other way about; he could break a skylight, jump into a garret, and lie hidden under the tiles, awaiting the propitious moment when he could gain the corridors below and, mingling with the crowd, slip unobserved into the street; or, he could hide among the roofs, and stay there; or, he could search for an opening--one of those air holes which put the cellars and drains in communication with the exterior....
But I have come to the conclusion that Dollon is dead!
Then his corpse could only remain up here; or, it has been put down into some place where nobody goes.
The garrets of the Palais are so incessantly visited by the clerks and registrars that no corpse could remain undiscovered in any of them.
Therefore, either Jacques Dollon's corpse is somewhere on the roofs of the Palais, or there is some sort of communication between the roofs and the drains--it is obvious!"
Evidently the next step was to search every hole and corner of these same roofs.
Armed with revolver and lantern, Fandor started on his tour of investigation; but prudently, for he was now almost certain that there were a number of accomplices involved in this Dollon affair.
To go carefully over the enormous roof of the Palais de Justice was no light task!
One has only to consider the immensity of this monumental pile, its complicated architecture, the numberless little courts enclosed within its vast confines, to understand the difficulties with which our intrepid journalist had to contend.
But Jerome Fandor was not the man to be discouraged in the face of difficulties: he was determined to brave them--conquer them!
He examined, minutely, the entire roofing of the Palais; he did not leave a corner or a morsel of shadow unexplored; there was not a gutter which he had not searched from end to end.
When, after two hours of strenuous exertion, he returned to his starting-point, the chimney of Marie Antoinette, he was fain to confess that if Jacques Dollon had mounted to the roof of the Palais de Justice he certainly had not remained there.
Fandor unfolded his plan once more.
It fluttered in the night breeze, as he carefully numbered all the chimneys opening on to this roof; then, one by one, he identified them with the real chimneys before his eyes.
He exclaimed joyfully:

"There, now!
It's just what I suspected!"
He had discovered there was one chimney not down on the plan: "Whither did it lead?"
At all costs he must find out--make sure.
He hastened to this extra chimney.
Its orifice was large enough to allow of the passage of a man; also, here again, stones had been recently loosened, and a rope had rubbed against them:

"What the deuce is this chimney?"
thought Fandor.
"Another mystery!
This chimney is not a chimney; there is not a trace of soot on it, even old soot!"
After a moment's reflection, he added:

"Can it be for ventilation only?
But a ventilation hole could only communicate with one of the apartments in the Palais itself, and how the deuce could they drop a corpse down there?
It would have been in the highest degree imprudent to attempt it!
No, it is not by that road they have carried off Dollon's body!
But then by what way?"
He glued his ear to the chimney.
After a while, Fandor could make out a vague, intermittent sound--could catch a little, far-away, plashing sound.
"Can the chimney communicate with the Seine?"
he asked himself.
"No, we are too far off it.
Why this opening, then?...
Ah, I have it!
It is a drain, a sewer, it communicates with!"
To verify that, there was nothing for it but to descend this chimney, which was no chimney!
So be it!...
Fandor took off his coat, and uncovered the long, fine cord, rolled round and round his middle.
Weighting the cord with a flint, he let it slide down the chimney, testing the straightness of the descent by the balanced oscillations of the stone, and so ascertaining the even size of the opening, as far as the line would go.
This was the work of a few minutes.
Fandor did not hesitate: he was eager to embark on the descent.
"After all," he murmured, "though I may find myself face to face with a band of assassins--what of it?
It is all in the night's risks!"
He fastened the end of the cord to one of the neighbouring chimneys--fastened it firmly; then, his revolver handily stuck in his belt, Fandor seized the cord, twisted it round his legs, and let himself slowly down through the narrow opening.
It was a perilous descent!
Fandor did not know whether his cord was long enough, and, lost in the darkness, with only the gleam of light from his lantern to guide him, he was naturally afraid of reaching the end of his rope unawares, and of falling into the black void beneath.
But what he observed in the course of his descent excited him so much that he almost forgot the danger he was running.
To those at all practised in police detective work, it was clear as daylight that men had passed this way, and recently.
"Here is a dislodged stone," muttered Fandor.
"And here are scrapes and scratches--fresh ... and ... that mark looks like blood!"
Pushing his knees and his shoulders against the wall to support himself and stay his movements, he examined the mark.
There was no doubt possible: Fandor's sharp eyes and the lantern's light had picked out a little red patch, which sullied one of the projecting stones in the chimney walls:

"This," reflected our amateur detective, "only confirms Dollon's death: if the wound which caused this mark had been made by a living body, the mark would have been larger, and there would have been others, for it must come from an abrasion of the skin made during the descent.
But this blood mark has resulted from a dead body knocking against the stones of the wall: it is not a mark make by flowing blood, but by blood crushed out."
He descended a few yards further:

"Here's a find!"
he cried.
He had just perceived some hairs sticking to the rough surface of the stones.
Again, with arched shoulders and bent knees, he supported himself against the wall, examined his discovery, left half the hairs where they were, took the rest, and carefully placed them in his pocket-book:

"The police must not be able to say that I have arranged this for their benefit," Fandor remarked.
"Cost what it may, if I do not come across Dollon's corpse below, I must find out to-morrow whether these hairs resemble his."
Fandor went on descending, and first in one place, then in another, he saw on the walls of this chimney whitish patches such as might have been caused by the passage of a heavy mass or body, hanging at the end of a rope, and striking against the walls on its way down.
Whilst he still believed himself to be some distance off the end of his downward journey, he felt a point of resistance beneath his feet.
At first he mistook it for firm ground, much to his surprise.
He was about to leave go of his cord when a remnant of prudence restrained him:

"How do I know there is not an abyss depths upon depths below me--down into the very bowels of the earth!
I had better take care!"
What Fandor had taken for firm ground was nothing but an iron staple projecting from the wall.
Fandor seized it, stopped for a minute or two's breathing space, ascertained, by drawing it up, that of his cord there were only a few yards remaining; but he also perceived, and with what relief, that from where he was resting, downwards the chimney was, as far as he could see by his lantern's light, marked off into regular spaces by these iron staples which are sometimes placed there for the use of chimney cleaners and masons.
Fandor found them a most convenient kind of ladder.
The descent now became easy, and in a short time our adventurous journalist reached the bottom of the chimney.
At first he could not understand where he had got to.
In the thick gloom around him his lantern's gleam of light showed him a kind of vaulted wall of massive masonry.
He advanced a step or two with noiseless tread, listening, on the alert.
Not a sound could he hear: he decided to expose the full light of his lantern.
The brighter light showed him that the chimney from which he was now standing some yards away ended in a kind of sewer, evidently no longer in use; and the plashing sound he had heard on the far up heights of the Palais roofs proceeded from a thin and muddy stream of water flowing in the middle of the sewer channel in the direction of the Seine.
Kneeling at the foot of the chimney Fandor could distinguish marks of steps made by human feet; much deeper and very different indentations were visible also:

"Not only have men passed this way but a short while ago," he murmured, "but they were carrying a heavy burden: there are two kinds of footmarks, made by two kinds of shoes, and the heels have made much deeper marks in the soil than have the tips--yes, these men bore a heavy burden!"
Fandor was so pleased that he mentally rubbed his hands over this discovery.
His quest was a success so far: he was on the track of Dollon's body!
And what copy for _La Capitale_!
Then a sad thought came to dim his delight:

"Poor, poor Elizabeth Dollon!
I swore to her I would get at the truth--and a lamentable truth it is!
Her brother is dead: he died in the Depot: he was done to death--it was no suicide!"
Whilst talking to himself Fandor was scrutinising every inch of the ground as he moved forward: there might be fresh clues:

"It's a queer kind of sewer," he went on.
"This streamlet is as much mud as water, is almost stagnant.
Evidently this underground sewer way is no longer used--has been abandoned!"
A horrid spectacle struck him motionless.
His lantern made visible a struggling, heaving mass of rats, fighting tooth and claw, enormous rats devouring some hidden thing!
Fandor's stomach rose at the sight.
Oh, horror!
Could it be Jacques Dollon's body?
Fandor snatched up a stone and flung it furiously among the unclean beasts.
They fled.
On the ground he could distinguish a mass, a red, formless mass, saturated with congealed blood:

"Assuredly, if the corpse has disappeared, it is there the assassins must have cut it in pieces, that they might carry it more easily, and those vile creatures are in the thick of feasting on the poor victim's remains!...
Pouah!"
Fandor moved on, only to discover another pool of blood almost as large, also besieged by rats:

"Evidently I shall find nothing else," thought Fandor: "the corpse no longer exists!"
He continued his advance, determined to find out what this underground way ended in.
His lantern was flickering to a finish when he arrived at the end of the sewer and found, as he had foreseen, that its opening had been cut in the steep bank of the Seine:

"That's a bit of luck!
I can get out this way instead of having to climb back the way I came, up to the Palais roof and down again!"
It was still night; darkness reigned save on the far horizon, where a faint, whitish line indicated the early dawn of an April day.
Fandor was just asking himself by what gymnastic feat he could regain the quay, and he was leaning over the opening of the sewer, his body bending far forward over the inky waters of the Seine.
Before he had time to turn, before he could regain his balance, a brutal blow from behind half stunned him, and a vigorous thrust precipitated his body into the Seine.
V

MOTHER TOULOUCHE AND CRANAJOUR

"Come along, Cranajour!
Let's have a sight of what they've given you for the frock coat and the whole outfit!"
The person thus challenged rummaged in the pockets of his old, much-patched and filthy garments, and after interminable fumblings and huntings, finished by extracting a certain number of silver pieces, which he counted over with the greatest care, finally he replied:

"Seventeen francs, Mother Toulouche."
Mother Toulouche showed her impatience:

"It's details I want!
How much for the coat?
How much for the whole suit?
I've got to know, I tell you!
I've got to write it all down, and I've got to see how much I've to hand over to each of the owners of the duds!...
Try to remember, Cranajour!"
The individual who answered to this odd appellation reflected.
After a silence, shrugging his shoulders, he replied:

"I don't know.
I can't make myself remember--not anyhow!...
And it's a long time since I sold the goods!"
Mother Toulouche shrugged in turn:

"A long time!"
she grumbled.
"What a wretched job!
Why, it's only two hours since--barely that!...
It's true," she went on, with a pitying look at the shabby, down-at-heel fellow, who had spread out his seventeen francs on the table, "it's true that you're known not to have two ha'p'orths of memory, and that at the end of an hour you have forgotten what you've done!"
"That's right enough," answered Cranajour.
"Let's have done with it, then," cried Mother Toulouche.
She held out a repulsive-looking specimen of old clothes:

"Be off with you!
Go and pawn this academician's cast-off!
When the comrades catch a sight of this bit of stuff to the fore, they'll understand they can come without danger!...
No cops about the store on the lookout, are there?"
Mother Toulouche took the precaution to advance to the threshold of her store, cast a rapid glance around--not a suspicious person, nor a sign of one to be seen:

"A good thing," muttered she, "but I was sure of it!
Those police spies are going to give us some peace for a bit!...
Likely the whole lot of them are on this Dollon business!
Isn't it so, Cranajour?"
As she retreated into her store again Mother Toulouche knocked against that individual, who had not budged: he had hung over his arm respectfully the miserable bit of stuff that had been styled an academician's robe:

"Well, what are you waiting for?"
asked she sharply.
"Nothing...."

"What are you going to do with that?"
Cranajour seemed to reflect:

"Haven't I told you," grumbled Mother Toulouche, "to go and stick it up outside?...
Don't say you've gone and forgotten already!"
"No, no!"
protested Cranajour, hastening to obey orders.
"What a specimen!"
thought Mother Toulouche, whilst counting over the seventeen francs.
Cranajour was a remarkably queer fish, beyond question.
How had he got into connection with Mother Toulouche and her intimates?
That remained a mystery.
One fine day this seedy specimen of humanity was found among the "comrades" exchanging vague remarks with one and another.
He stuck to them in all their shifting from this place to that: no one had been able to get out of him what his name was, nor where he came from, for he was afflicted with a memory like a sieve--he could not remember things for two hours together.
A feeble-minded, poor sort of fellow, with not a halfpenny's worth of wickedness in him, always ready to do a hand's turn for anyone: to judge by his looks he might have been any age between forty and seventy, for there is nothing like privations and misery to alter the looks of a man!
Faced by this queer fish, with a brain like a sieve, they had christened him "Crane a jour"--and the nickname had stuck to this anonymous individual.
Besides, was not Cranajour the most complaisant of fellows, the least exacting of collaborators--always content with what was given him, always willing to do his best!
As to Mother Toulouche; she kept a little shop on the quay of the Clock.
The sign over her little store read:

"_For the Curiosity Lover._"

This alluring title was not justified by anything to be found inside this store, which was nothing but a common pick-up-anything shop: it was a receptacle for a hideous collection of lumber, for old broken furniture, for garments past decent wear, for indescribable odds and ends, where the wreckage of human misery lay huddled cheek by jowl with the beggarly offscourings of Parisian destitution.
Behind the store, whose little front faced the edge of the quay and looked over the Seine, was a sordid back-shop: here the pallet of Mother Toulouche, a kitchen stove out of order, and the overflow of the goods which were crowded out of the store were jumbled up in ill-smelling disorder.
This back-shop communicated with the rue de Harlay by a narrow dark passage; thus the lair of old Mother Toulouche had two outlets, nor were they superfluous; in fact, they were indispensable for such as she--ever on the alert to escape the inquisitive attentions of the police, ever receiving visitors of doubtful morals and thoroughly bad reputation.
Mother Toulouche's quarters comprised not only the two stores, but a cellar both large and deep, to which one obtained access by a staircase pitch dark, crooked, and everlastingly covered with moisture, owing to the proximity of the river.
The floor of the cellar was a kind of noisome cesspool: one slipped on the greasy mud--floundered about in it: for all that, this cellar was almost entirely filled with cases of all kinds, with queer-looking bundles, with objects of various shapes and sizes.
Evidently the jumble store of Mother Toulouche did not confine itself to the rough-and-ready shop in the front; and, into the bargain, this basement might be used as a safe hiding-place in an emergency, a precious refuge for whoever might feel it necessary to cover his tracks, and thus escape the investigations of the police, for instance!
Mother Toulouche, as a matter of fact, needed such premises as hers: if she took ceaseless precautions it was because she had a reason for her uneasy watchfulness.
Mother Toulouche had already come into involuntary contact with the police; and her last and most serious encounter with them went as far back as those days of renown when the band of Numbers had as their chief the mysterious hooligan Loupart, also known under the name of Dr.
Chaleck.
[4] She had been arrested for complicity in a bank-note robbery, had been tried, and had been sentenced to twenty-two months' imprisonment.
[Footnote 4: See _The Exploits of Juve_.]
Not turned in the slightest degree from the error of her ways, and possessing some money, which she had kept carefully hidden, Mother Toulouche had decided to set up shop close to the Palais de Justice, that Great House where those gentlemen of the robe judged and condemned poor folk!
She would say:

"Being so close to the red-robed I shall end by making the acquaintance of one or two of them, and that may turn out a good job for me one of these days!"
But this was merely a blind, for other considerations had led to Mother Toulouche renting this shop on the Isle of the City, in opening on the quay of the Clock, a quay but little frequented, her wretched jumble store of odds and ends.
She had kept in touch with the band of Numbers, which had gradually come together again as soon as the various numbers of it had finished serving their time.
For a while they had lived unmolested, but lately misfortunes had laid a heavy hand on the group.
Still, as the band began to break up, other members came to replace those who had disappeared, either temporarily or for good and all.
At any rate, they could safely count on the assistance of an individual more valuable to them than anyone; this was a man named Nibet, who although he intervened but seldom, could, thanks to his influence, save the band many annoyances.
This Nibet held an honourable official position; he was a warder at the Depot.
*       *       *       *       *

Whilst Mother Toulouche, from the back of her store, was watching with a derisive air the good-natured Cranajour fasten up the Academician's robe in a prominent position on the front of her nondescript emporium, someone stepped inside, and warmly greeted Mother Toulouche with a:

"Good day, old lady!"
It was big Ernestine,[5] who explained volubly that for a good half hour she had been prowling about near the statue of Henry IV, keeping the store well in view, but not daring to approach until the usual signal had been displayed.
Those who frequented the place knew that when the store was under police observation and Mother Toulouche feared a raid she took care to hang out any kind of old clothes; but if the way was clear, if no lurking police were on the lookout, then the rallying flag would be hoisted, the flag being the old, patched, rusty, musty Academician's robe.
[Footnote 5: See _The Exploits of Juve_.]
Ernestine had arrived looking thoroughly upset:

"Have you heard the latest?"
she cried, "the bad news?"
"What news?
Whose news?"
questioned Mother Toulouche.
"Why, that poor Emilet has come down a regular cropper!"
"The poor fellow!...
He isn't smashed up, is he?"
Mother Toulouche lifted her hands.
"I haven't heard anything more than what I've told you!"
Consternation was on the faces of the two women.
Their good Mimile!
He who knew how to take care of himself without leaving a comrade in the lurch, who stuck to them, working for the common good.
A few years previous to this Mimile, having refused to conform to military law, had been arrested in the tavern of a certain Father Korn during a particularly drastic police raid, and the defaulting youth had been straightway put under the penal military discipline administered to such as he.
Instead of making himself notorious by his execrable conduct as those in his position generally did, he behaved like a little saint.
Having thus made a reputation to trade on, he was twice able to steal the money from the regimental chest without a shadow of suspicion falling on him, and, what was worse, two of his innocent comrades had been accused of the crime, had been condemned and shot in his stead!
Owing to his good conduct Mimile had been transferred to a regiment stationed in Algiers, and having a considerable amount of spare time on his hands, he got into close touch with the aeroplane mechanics.
He was very much at home in this branch of work: could not Mimile demolish a lock as easily as one rolls a cigarette?
He was daring to a degree, and, as soon as his time in the army was up, he began to earn his living as an aviator, and rightly, for he had become an able airman.
Nevertheless, Mimile become Emilet, had aspired to greater things: a humdrum honest livelihood was not to his taste!
He had come to the conclusion that provided he went warily nothing could be easier than to carry on a lucrative smuggling trade by aeroplane: he could fly from country to country under the pretext that he was out to make records in flying.
Custom-house officials and police inspectors in the interior would never think of examining the tubes of a flying machine, to see whether or no they were packed with lace; nor would it occur to them to overhaul certain cells fore and aft to discover whether things of value had been secreted in them, such as thousands of matches or false coin.
So, from time to time, Mimile would announce that he was off on a trial trip to Brussels from Paris, from London to Calais, and so on.
For mechanics Mimile had two brokendown sharpers, who served as connecting links between the aviator and the band of smugglers and false coiners who gathered at the lair of Mother Toulouche under the seal of secrecy.
This was why big Ernestine was so anxious when she heard of Mimile's accident.
Had the aeroplane been totally wrecked?
Would the very considerable prize of Malines lace they were expecting reach its destination safe and sound?
For some time past ill-luck had pursued them, had seemed to pursue implacably these unfortunates who took such pains and precautions to carry through their unlawful operations to a successful issue.
Already the Cooper, a member of the confraternity who had had his glorious hour in the famous days of Chaleck and Loupart, had scarcely left prison retirement before he had been nabbed again, owing to the far too sharp eyes of the French custom-house officials on the Belgian frontier.
Others of the band were also under lock and key again: it really seemed as if Mother Toulouche and her circle were being strictly watched by the police ... and now here was Emilet who had come a regular cropper in his aeroplane--no doubt about it!
Mother Toulouche was set on knowing the rights of it:

"But what has happened to Emilet exactly?"
She called Cranajour.
The queer fellow came forward from the back store, where he had been loafing: he had a bewildered air.
"Cranajour," said Mother Toulouche, putting a sou in his hand, "hurry off and buy me an evening paper!
Now be quick about it!...
Don't forget.... Make a knot in your handkerchief to remind a stupid head!"
"Oh, don't be afraid, Mother Toulouche," declared Cranajour, "I shan't forget!"
He nodded to big Ernestine, and vanished as by magic into the darkness, for night had fallen.
Scarcely had Cranajour gone, than a surly looking individual slipped into the store, not by the quay entrance, but through the back store, to which he had gained access by the dark passage leading to the rue de Harlay.
His collar was turned up as though he were cold; his cap was drawn well over his eyes, thus his face was almost entirely hidden.
Having barred the door on the quay side of the store, Mother Toulouche joined big Ernestine and the newcomer:

"Well, Nibet, anything fresh?"
she asked.
Removing his cap and lowering his collar Nibet's crabbed visage glowered on the two women: it was the Depot warder right enough:

"Bad," he growled between his teeth: "Things are hot right at the Palais!"
"Things to worry about--to do with comrades committed for trial?"
questioned big Ernestine.
Nibet shrugged and threw a glance of disdain at the girl:

"You're going silly!
It's this Dollon mess-up!"
The warder gave them an account of what had happened.
The two women were all ears, as they followed Nibet's story of events which had thrown the whole legal world into a state of commotion: incomprehensible occurrences, which threatened to turn an ordinary murder case into one of the most mysterious and most popular of assassination dramas.
Mother Toulouche and big Ernestine were well aware that Nibet knew much more than he had told them about the details of the Dollon-Vibray affair; but they dared not cross-examine the warder who was in a nasty mood--nor did the announcement of Emilet's accident add to his gaiety!
"It just wanted that!"
he grunted: "And those bundles of lace were to turn up this evening too!"
"Who is to bring them?"
asked big Ernestine.
"The Sailor," declared Nibet.
"And who is to receive them?"
demanded Mother Toulouche.
"I and the Beadle," answered Nibet in a surly tone.
"Come to think of it," went on Nibet, staring hard at big Ernestine, "where _is_ that man of yours--the Beadle?"
*       *       *       *       *

Like someone who had been running at top speed Cranajour, who had been gone about an hour on his newspaper-buying errand, drew up panting before the dark little entry leading from the rue de Harlay to the den of Mother Toulouche.
He slipped into the passage; but instead of rejoining the old storekeeper he began to mount a steep and tortuous staircase, which led up to the many floors of the house.
He climbed up to the seventh story; turned the key of a shaky door, and entered an attic whose skylight window opened obliquely in the sloping roof.
This poverty-stricken chamber was the domicile of the queer fellow who passed his daylight hours in the company of Mother Toulouche, hobnobbing with a hole-and-corner crew, cronies of the old receiver of stolen goods.
Overheated with running, Cranajour unbuttoned his coat, opened his shirt, sprinkled his face and the upper part of his body with cold water, sponged the perspiration from his brow, and brushed the dust off his big shoes.
It was a clear starlight night.
To freshen himself up still more he put his head and shoulders out of the half-opened window.
He was gazing at the roofs facing him; suddenly he started, and his eyes gleamed.
They were the roofs, outlined against the night sky, of the Palais de Justice.
There was a shadow on the roof of the great pile, a shadow which moved to and fro, passing from one roof ridge to another, now vanishing behind a chimney, now coming into view again.
Anxiously Cranajour followed the odd movements of the mysterious individual who was making his lofty and lonely promenade up above there.
"What the devil does it mean?"
soliloquised the watcher.
Whoever could have seen Cranajour at this moment would have been struck by the marked change produced in his physiognomy.
This was not the Cranajour of the wandering eye, the silly smile, the stupid face, known to Mother Toulouche and her cronies; it was a transformed Cranajour, mobile of feature, lively of movement, a sharp, keen-witted Cranajour!
Veritably another man!
Puzzled by the vagaries of the promenader on the Palais roofs, Cranajour followed his movements intently for a few minutes longer.
He would have remained at the window the whole night long had the unknown persisted in his peregrinations; but Cranajour saw him climb to the top of a chimney, a wide one, lower himself slowly into the opening of it, and then vanish from view!
Cranajour waited a while in hopes that the unknown would not be long in coming out of his mysterious hiding-place again.
He waited and expected in vain: the roofs of the Palais resumed their ordinary aspect: solitude reigned there.
*       *       *       *       *

Not long afterwards Cranajour re-entered the back store.
"What a time you have been!"
cried Mother Toulouche: "You've brought the newspaper, haven't you?"
Cranajour looked at the little company with his most stupid expression and then lowered his eyes:

"My goodness, I've forgotten to buy one!"
he cried.
Nibet, who had paid but scant attention to the new arrival, continued his conversation with big Ernestine: they were talking about her lover, nicknamed the Beadle.
He was a terrible individual this Beadle!
Though his nickname suggested a peaceful occupation, he really owed it to the frightful reputation he had won as a "_bell-ringer_"; but the bells big Ernestine's lover was in the habit of ringing were unfortunate pedestrians whom he would rob and half murder, beating them unmercifully about the head and body.
Sometimes he would beat them to within an ace of their last gasp: occasionally he would beat the life out of them altogether if they tried to resist his brutal attacks.
The Beadle was an Apache[6] of the first order of brutality.
[Footnote 6: Hooligan.]
Big Ernestine finished explaining to Nibet that he must not count on the Beadle that evening, for things were so queer and uncertain, the outlook was so gloomy that no one knew what bad business they might be in for.
Mother Toulouche asked if he had got mixed up in the Dollon affair.
Cranajour cocked his ear at that, whilst pretending to put a great bundle of old clothes in order.
But Nibet replied:

"The Beadle has nothing whatever to do with that business....
I know what I know about all that....
He's afraid of getting what the Cooper got, so he keeps away.
He's not far out either--you've got to be careful these days--queer times!"
Ernestine and Mother Toulouche bewailed the Cooper's fate:

"Poor fellow!
No sooner out of quod than back--only a fortnight's liberty!
And with a vile accusation fastened to him--smuggling and coining!"
Nibet tried to relieve their minds:

"Haven't I told you," growled he, "that I'm going to get Maitre Henri Robart to defend him?
He knows how to get round juries: he'll get the Cooper off with an easy sentence."
Nibet looked at his watch:

"It will soon be half-past two!
Got to go down!
The boatman will be there before long, at the mouth of the sewer!"
Mother Toulouche, who was always in a flurry when smuggled goods were to be unloaded in her cellars, tried to dissuade Nibet:

"You'll never be able to manage it by yourself!"
Nibet glanced at Cranajour.
The warder hesitated, then said:

"Since there's no one else, couldn't I take Cranajour with me?"
At first objections were raised; there was a low-voiced discussion, so that the simpleton might not catch what they were saying: Cranajour had never been up to dodges of this kind: so far he had been kept out of them; besides, he was such a senseless cove, he might give things away, make a hash of it!
Nibet smiled:

"Why, it's just because he is such a simpleton, and because he hasn't a mite of memory that we can use him safely!"
"That's true!"
said Mother Toulouche, somewhat reassured.
She called to Cranajour:

"Come along, Cranajour, and just tell us where you dined this evening!"
The simpleton seemed to make a prodigious effort of memory, seized his head between his hands, closed his eyes, and racked his brains: after quite a long silence, he declared emphatically and with a distressed air:

"Faith, I can't tell you now!"
Nibet, who had closely watched this performance, nodded:

"It's quite all right," he said.
The cellars below Mother Toulouche's store were extensive, dark, and ill-smelling.
The walls glistened with exuding damp, and the ground was a sticky mass of foul mud, of all sorts of refuse, of putrefying matter.
Nibet, followed by his companion, made his way down to them: it was no easy descent, for they had to climb over cases of all kinds, and over bales and bundles that moved and rolled about.
They passed into a smaller cellar, around which were ranged long boxes of tin with rusty covers.
Cranajour, who had been given the lantern to carry, was attracted to these boxes: he lifted the cover of one of them and drew back wonderstruck, for the box was full of shining gold pieces!
Nibet, with a jab and thrust in the back, interrupted Cranajour's contemplation of this fortune:

"Nothing to faint over!"
he growled.
"You're not such a simpleton then!
You know the value of yellow boys?
All right, then, I'll give you one or two, if you do your job all right!
But," continued the warder, leading his companion to the further end of the second cellar, "you will have to look out if you present your banker with one of those pieces, for the little bits of shiny won't pass everywhere--you've got to keep your eye open--and jolly wide, too!"
Cranajour nodded comprehension:

"False money!
False money!"
he murmured.
There was a very strong big door: an iron bar kept it closed.
Nibet raised it with Cranajour's help.
Through the door the two men passed into a long dark passage, swept by a sharp rush of air.
The floor of it was paved, and at the side of it flowed a pestilential stream, carrying along in its slow-moving water a quantity of miscellaneous filth: it was thick as soup with impurities.
"The little collecting sewer of the Cite," whispered Nibet.
Pointing to a grey patch in the distance he put his mouth to Cranajour's ear:

"See the daylight yonder?
That's where the sewer discharges itself into the Seine: it's there the boatman and his load will be waiting for us presently."
Nibet stopped dead; drew Cranajour back by the sleeve, and stepped stealthily backwards to the massive doors of the cellar.
An unaccustomed noise had alarmed the warder.
In profound silence the two men stood listening intently.
There was no mistake!
The sound of sharp regular steps could be clearly heard coming from that part of the sewer opposite the opening.
"Someone!"
said Cranajour, who was all on the alert, as he had been in his attic, watching the shadow and its vagaries on the roofs of the Palais de Justice.
Nibet nodded.
The light from a dark lantern gleamed on the damp, slimy walls of the subterranean passageway.
"Come inside," murmured Nibet, in an almost inaudible voice; and, with infinite precaution, he closed the massive portal between the cellar and the sewer-way.
In safe hiding the two men could watch the approaching intruder: they had extinguished their lantern, and were peering through the badly joined wood of the solid door.
Friend or foe?
An individual moved into view.
The reflected light of his lantern lit up the vaulting of the sewer-way, and showed up his face.
The man was young, fair, wore a small moustache!
Hardly had he passed the cellar door when Nibet gripped Cranajour's arm and growled--intense rage was expressed in grip and tone--"It's he!
Again!
The journalist of the Dollon affair, of the Depot business--Jerome Fandor!
Ah....
This time we'll see!..."
Nibet's hand plunged into his trouser pocket.
Cranajour was eagerly watching the warder's every movement: he clearly heard the sharp snap of a pocket-knife--a long sharp knife--a deadly weapon!
Giving prudence the go-by, Nibet had opened the door, and dragging Cranajour in his wake had rushed into the sewer-way, hard on the heels of the journalist, who was slowly going in the direction of the Seine.
Nibet ground his teeth.
"I have had enough of that beast!
Always on our track!
Too good a chance to miss!
I'm going to make a hole in his skin for him!"
In the twilight of early dawn, which penetrated the sewer near the opening, Cranajour shuddered.
With stealthy step the two men drew near the journalist.
Fandor walked on unsuspicious at a slow regular pace, his head lowered.
The two bandits came up to within a yard of him.
Noiselessly, savagely determined, Nibet lifted his arm for a murderous stroke.
At this precise moment Fandor stopped at the verge of the exit, by which the sewer discharged its burden steeply into the Seine.
Yet a moment: Nibet's knife was poised for the rapid and terrible stroke; it was about to bury itself in the neck of the journalist up to the hilt, when Cranajour lifted his foot, as if inspired by an idea on the spur of the moment, gave the journalist a violent kick in the lower part of the back, and sent him flying into space!
They heard his body fall heavily into the Seine....
So roughly sudden had been Cranajour's movement that Nibet stood dumbfounded, arm in air, and staring at Cranajour:

Cranajour smiled his most idiotic smile, nodded, but did not utter one word!...
*       *       *       *       *

It was formidable, the rage of Nibet!
Here had that crass fool, Cranajour, kicked away the warder's chance of ridding himself of the journalist for good and all!
This hit-and-miss made Nibet foam with rage.
Of all the exasperating simpletons, this fool of a Cranajour took the cake!
The two made their way back to the store, where Mother Toulouche and big Ernestine anxiously awaited results; and now not only had the two men returned stuttering over their statements and with no news of the boatman, who was generally up to time, but they had missed a fine opportunity chance had offered them!
Nibet hated the journalist like all the poisons.
Taunts, jeers, abuse were heaped on the silly head of Cranajour, who, all in vain, raised his eyes to heaven, beat his chest, shrugged his shoulders, stammered, mumbled vague excuses:

"He didn't know exactly why he had done it!
He thought he was helping Nibet!"
They disputed and contended for two hours.
Suddenly Cranajour broke a long silence and demanded, looking as stupid as a half-witted owl:

"What have I done then?
What are you scolding me for?"
Mother Toulouche, big Ernestine, and the wrathful Nibet stared at one another, taken aback--then they understood: two hours had gone by, and Cranajour no longer remembered what had happened!
Decidedly he was more innocent than a new-born babe!
There was nothing whatever to be done with such an idiot, that was certain!
VI

IN THE OPPOSITE SENSE

When Jerome Fandor had been precipitated into the Seine so unexpectedly and with such violence he kept control of his wits: he did not utter a cry as he fell head foremost into the darkling river.
He was an excellent swimmer: all aching as he was, he let himself go with the current and presently reached the sheltering arch of the Pont Neuf.
There he took breath for a minute:

"Queer!"
was all he murmured.
Then with regular strokes he made for the steep bank of the Seine opposite.
Quitting the river, he secreted himself behind a heap of stones which lay on the quay.
He took off his soaked garments and wrung the water out of them.
This done, and clad in what looked like dry clothes, Fandor walked along the quay, hailed a passing cabman half asleep on his seat, jumped inside, and gave his address to the Jehu.
*       *       *       *       *

When he arrived at _La Capitale_ on the Friday morning a boy approached him, and whispered mysteriously:

"Monsieur Fandor, there's a very nice little woman in the sitting-room, who has been waiting for over an hour.
She wishes to see you.
She will not give her name: she declares that you know who she is."
"What is she like?"
Fandor asked.
His curiosity was not much aroused.
"Pretty, fair, all in black," replied the boy.
"Good.
I'll go in," interrupted Fandor.
He entered the sitting-room and stood face to face with Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon.
She came forward, her eyes shining, her face alight with welcome:

"Ah, monsieur," she cried, taking his hands in hers, a movement of pure gratitude: "Ah, monsieur, I knew you would come to my help!
I have read your article of yesterday.
Thank you again and again!
But, I implore you, since my brother is alive, tell me where I can see him!
For mercy's sake don't keep me waiting!"
Surprise kept Fandor silent a moment.
_La Capitale_ had published the evening before a sensational article by Fandor, in which, under the guise of suppositions and interrogations, he had narrated the various adventures as they had happened to himself, concluding with the question--really an ironical one: "If Jacques Dollon, who had disappeared from his cell, where he had been left for dead, had escaped from the Depot by way of the famous chimney of Marie Antoinette, had reached the roof of the Palais, had redescended by another passageway to the sewer opening on to the Seine, did it not seem possible that Dollon had escaped alive from the Depot?"
Fandor had indulged in a gentle irony, despite the gravity of the circumstances, in order to complicate the already complicated affair, and so plunge the police into a confusion worse confounded: this, in spite of his conviction that Dollon was dead, dead as dead could be!
Now the cruelty of this professional game was brought home to him.
His article had raised fresh hopes in Dollon's poor sister!
At sight of this charming girl, brightened with hope, Fandor felt all pity and guilt.
He pressed her hands; he hesitated; he was troubled.
He did not know how to explain.
At last he murmured:

"It was wrong of me, mademoiselle, very wrong to write that article in such a way without warning you beforehand.
Alas!
You must not cherish illusions, illusions which this unfortunate article has given rise to, illusions I cannot believe in myself.
I speak with all the sincerity of which I am capable, with the keenest desire to be of service to you: I dare not let you buoy yourself up with false hopes....
I assure you then, that from what I have been able to learn, to see, to know, I am convinced that your unfortunate brother is no more!...
If there have been moments when I have doubted this, I am now morally certain that he is dead.
Take courage, mademoiselle!
Try, try to forget--to--to ..."

Fandor was trembling with emotion: he could not continue.
Elizabeth bent her head, her eyes full of tears.
She could not speak.
She was overcome by this cruel dashing to the ground of her hopes.
Never, never, to see her brother again!
An agonising silence reigned.
Fandor was profoundly troubled by this mute grief.
He sought in vain for some word of comfort, of encouragement.
Elizabeth rose to go.
The poor girl realised that nothing could be gained by prolonging the interview.
Her one need now was to be alone, for then she could weep.
Fandor was about to accompany her to the door, when a boy entered:

"Monsieur Fandor, there's a man wishes to speak to you!"
"Say I am not here," replied our journalist: he had no wish to see strangers just then.
"But Monsieur Fandor, he says he is the keeper of the landing stage of the passenger boat service, and he comes with reference to the Dollon affair!"
Both Elizabeth Dollon and Jerome Fandor started.
She was trembling.
Our journalist said at once:

"Bring him in then!"
The boy went off, and Fandor turned to the trembling girl.
"Tell me, Mademoiselle Elizabeth, do you feel equal to hearing what this man has to tell us?
It is not improbable that he has seen something--something it would be best you should not hear--had you not better avoid it?"
Elizabeth shook her head in the negative.
She was collecting all her forces: she would not remain ignorant of any detail of the terrible tragedy which had cost her brother so dear:

"I shall be strong enough," she announced firmly.
The boy ushered in the visitor.
He looked a good specimen of his class, a man about forty.
On his cap were the gold anchors of those in the employ of the Paris boat service.
"Monsieur!...
Madame!...
At your service!"
The good fellow was very much embarrassed:

"Monsieur Fandor," he went on, "you do not know me, but I know you very well, that I do!...
I read your articles every day in _La Capitale_.
They're jolly good!
What I say is ..."

Fandor cut short his admirer: "Now tell me what brings you here!"
"Oh, well, here goes!
I was reading your article yesterday, about how Jacques Dollon, no more dead than you or I, had escaped over the roofs of the Palais de Justice.
That made me laugh, because I am the keeper of the landing stage at the Pont Neuf Station.
This affair is supposed to have happened in my parts, don't you see?...
Well, I had just come to the bit where you also suppose that the corpse might easily have been devoured by rats inside the sewer.... Well, Monsieur Fandor, I can assure you that it was nothing of the sort...."

The journalist was all eyes and ears.
He signed to Elizabeth that she must keep quiet, so as not to intimidate the good fellow.
"Come now, what is it you have seen?"
"What I've seen?...
Why, I saw Dollon break bounds!"
At this statement Elizabeth grew white as a sheet.
She jumped up, and with clasped hands rushed towards the keeper:

"Speak, speak quickly, I implore you!"
she cried.
Fandor drew Elizabeth back gently, and whispered a few words to her.
He turned to the keeper:

"Mademoiselle has also come to make a statement regarding this affair," he explained.
"That is why she is so interested in what you have just told us....
But tell us how you saw Jacques Dollon escape!"
"Well, I had got up a bit earlier than usual to see that the anchors and mooring were all right, and I thought I saw what looked like a big bundle fall into the river from the sewer opening--only I was half asleep and didn't take much notice; for, what with all the rain we've been having, there's no end of filthy stuff tumbling out of the mouth of the sewers.
But, a few minutes after that, I noticed that the bundle, instead of going with the flow of the current, was drifting across the Seine, plainly making for the bank.
There could be no mistake about that!"
Elizabeth Dollon cried:

"And then?
And then?"
"Then, my little lady, what if this surprise packet didn't turn off behind an arch of the Pont-Neuf!
I didn't see what became of it--but no one will get it out of my head that it isn't some jolly dog who had no wish to show himself--that's what I think!"
The keeper paused, then went on:

"That's all I have to tell you, Monsieur Fandor ... it might serve for one of your articles some time or other ... only you mustn't say that I told you.
I might get into trouble with my chiefs about it!"
Elizabeth Dollon was no longer listening.
She had turned to Fandor, and with shining eyes murmured:

"He lives!...
He lives!..."
Fandor thanked the keeper, and got rid of him.
Directly the door closed on him he darted to Elizabeth:

"Poor child!"
he cried, full of pity for her.
"Ah!
Don't pity me!
I don't need your pity now!...
My brother is alive!...
That man has seen him!"
Fandor had to undeceive her:

"Your brother is certainly dead," he declared.
"If he were the individual in question, it would not have been yesterday morning, but the morning before that, when the keeper saw him; and I do assure you ..."

"But this good fellow is telling the truth then?"
"I assure you that I have good reasons, the best of reasons, for believing, for being certain, that the swimmer who crossed the Seine was not your brother!"
"Great Heaven!
Who was it then?"
Fandor hesitated a moment.... Should he divulge his secret?
All he said was:

"It was not your brother--I know that!"
So decisive was his tone, so great the sympathy vibrating through his words, that Elizabeth Dollon, once more convinced that Fandor was not speaking at random, bent her head and shed tears of deepest grief and bitter disappointment.
Fandor allowed the sorrow-stricken girl to give way to her grief for a few minutes; then he gently asked her:

"Mademoiselle Elizabeth, shall we have a little talk?...
You see I simply cannot tell you everything, yet I would gladly help you!...
But first and foremost, I beg of you to put quite out of your mind this hope that your brother is still alive!..."
Sadly Elizabeth wiped away her tears, and in a voice which she tried to steady, said:

"Oh, what is to become of me!
I thought I had found in you a support, a help, and now you abandon me!
And I had put my faith in your goodness of heart!...
There are your articles on the one hand, and your attitude on the other--what am I to make of it?
It is driving me to despair!
And if you only knew how much I need to be supported, encouraged; I feel as if I should go out of my senses--out of my mind ... and I am alone, so terribly alone!"
The poor girl's voice was broken by sobs, her whole body was shaken by them.
Fandor went up to her, and spoke to her in a low tone affectionately: he felt great sympathy and an immense pity for this unhappy young creature, who charmed and attracted him.
He tried to console her, and to change the current of her thoughts:

"Come now, Mademoiselle, do try to control yourself a little!
I have promised to help you, and I certainly shall--you may be sure of it.
But consider now--if I am to be of real use to you, I must know a little about you: you, yourself, your family, your brother; who your friends are, and who are your enemies!
I must enter into your existence, not as a judge, but as a comrade who is interested in all that concerns you.
Will you not confide in me?
Once I know what there is to know we might then unite our efforts to some purpose, and find out what really has happened, since the mystery remains inexplicable."
Elizabeth Dollon felt the young man was sincere, and that what he said in such a gentle voice was true.
This poor human waif asked no more than to be allowed to cling to whoever would take pity on her and be kind.
She now spoke to Jerome Fandor of her childhood without suspecting in the least that the same Jerome Fandor--Charles Rambert--used to play with her in those days.
[7]

[Footnote 7: See _Fantomas_.]
She mentioned the assassination of the Marquise de Langrune--the first tragic episode of her life; then had come the horrible death of her father, old Steward Dollon, who had passed from the service of the Marquise to that of the Baroness de Vibray, and then perished, the victim of a criminal.
She explained how Jacques Dollon and she had come to settle in Paris, feeling themselves rich on the savings they had inherited from their parents.
Elizabeth had become a dressmaker, and Jacques had become an artist-craftsman.
Gradually the young man's talent and industry had enabled his sister to leave her workroom and come to live with him.
His reputation was a growing one, and the two young people looked forward to an existence of honest comfort in the near future.
They got to know some people, one or two of whom were rich, and had shown their interest in the brother and sister.
Jerome Fandor interrupted her:

"You always remained on good terms with the Baroness de Vibray?"
At this question the girl's eyes flashed:

"They have put into print shameful things about this poor dear Baroness, and about my brother also.
The papers have represented her as eccentric, as mad; they have said worse things than that, you know that, don't you?...
They have declared that there was a very intimate relation between her and my brother--I cannot say more--it is too hateful!
It is all false--as false as false can be!
The Baroness was particularly interested in Jacques, but assuredly that was owing to the long standing relations between her family and ours....
The suicide of the Baroness has been a sad addition to my grief, for I was very fond of her!..."
Fandor had been listening attentively to Elizabeth's story.
He now said:

"You have used the word 'suicide,' mademoiselle: do you then really think, as everyone seems to do, that your patroness killed herself of her own free will?"
Elizabeth reflected a minute before replying:

"That was what she wrote--and one must believe that, nevertheless ..."

"Nevertheless?"
Elizabeth hesitated, passed her hand over her forehead, then said:

"Nevertheless, Monsieur Fandor, the more I think over this death, the more remarkable it seems.
The Baroness de Vibray was not the kind of person to commit suicide, even if she were unhappy, even if she were ruined.
I have often heard her speak of her money affairs; she even used to joke about the expostulations of her bankers, Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil, because she was too fond of gambling.
That was our poor friend's weakness: she was a dreadful gambler: she was always betting on horses and gambling on the Bourse.
"[8]

[Footnote 8: Stock Exchange.]
"Do you know the Barbey-Nanteuils at all, mademoiselle?"
"A little.
I have met them once or twice at Madame de Vibray's--when she had one of her little evenings.
Once or twice my brother has asked their advice about investments--very modest investments I can assure you--and they got one of their friends, a Monsieur Thomery, to buy some of my brother's art pottery."
"Have you many acquaintances in Paris, mademoiselle?"
"Besides the Baroness we hardly saw anyone except Madame Bourrat, a very nice, kind woman, widow of an inspector of the City of Paris; she keeps a boarding-house at Auteuil, rue Raffet.
In fact, I am staying with her now, for I had not the courage to go back to my brother's place: too many dreadful memories are connected with his studio there.
I am lucky to find such a sympathetic friend in Madame Bourrat, and such a warm welcome....
I am alone now, and life is sad."
Fandor went on with his cross-examination:

"Nevertheless, mademoiselle, I must ask you to return in thought to that tragic home of yours.
Please tell me what people you knew in your immediate neighbourhood?
Acquaintances?"
Elizabeth considered:

"Acquaintances is the word, because we were not on really intimate terms with our neighbours in the Cite; for the most part they are either art students or work-people.
However, we saw fairly often a nice man, a stranger, a Dutchman I think he was, called Monsieur Van Hoeren; he manufactures accordions; and lives in a little house opposite ours, with six children; he has been a widower for years!
Also there was a Monsieur Louis, an engraver, who used to take tea with us in the evening sometimes, his wife also: he is employed in the Posts and Telegraphs.
We had practically no other acquaintances."
Elizabeth stopped.
There was a silence.
Fandor asked another question:

"Tell me, mademoiselle, when you entered the studio for the first time after the tragedy, did you notice anything abnormal?"
The poor girl shuddered at the appalling picture before her mind's eye:

"Good Heavens, monsieur," she cried, "I did not examine the studio minutely!
I had only one thought--to be with my brother, who had been so unjustly accused, so ..."

Fandor interrupted to ask:

"Do you not know that at his preliminary examination your brother declared that he had not received a single visitor during the evening preceding the tragedy?
How then do you explain the fact that the Baroness de Vibray was found dead in his studio, and at his side, when no one had seen her enter it?
Did your brother make a mistake?
Please tell me what you think about it!"
Elizabeth gazed anxiously at the young journalist, then fixed her eyes on the floor.
Her hands twitched; she began to twist her fingers feverishly:

"Do trust me!"
begged Jerome Fandor.
"Please tell me what you think!"
Elizabeth rose, took several steps, and placed herself in front of the journalist:

"Ah, monsieur, there is something mysterious, which I cannot explain!
As a matter of fact, someone must have come to see my brother that evening: I cannot assert it as a fact beyond dispute certainly: but in my own mind I feel quite sure about it."
"But you must have more proof of it than that?"
cried Fandor.
"But--there is more!"
cried Elizabeth, as if enlightened by a sudden discovery: "There is a fact!..."
"Tell me, do!"
cried Fandor, intensely interested.
"Well, just imagine, then!
Among the papers scattered over his table, and close to his book, which was open, I noticed a sort of list of names and addresses, written on our own note-paper, and in the kind of green ink we use--so--well ..."

"So," interrupted the journalist, "you came to the conclusion that this list had been written at your brother's house?"
"Yes, and it was not my brother's handwriting."
"Nor that of the Baroness de Vibray?"
"Nor that of the Baroness de Vibray!"
"And what did this list contain?"
"Names, addresses, I tell you, of persons we knew.
There were also two or three dates...."

"And is that all?"
"That is all, monsieur: I saw nothing else!"
"Little enough," murmured Fandor, disappointed.
"Still no detail, however slight, must be ignored!...
What have you done with that list, mademoiselle?"
"I must have taken it with me when I collected all the papers I could find the day before yesterday, before going to the boarding-house at Auteuil."
"When you have an opportunity, will you bring me that list?"
requested Fandor.
*       *       *       *       *

The conversation was interrupted.
A boy came to tell Fandor that he was wanted on the telephone by someone in the Public Prosecutor's Office.
*       *       *       *       *

Later on in the day Jerome Fandor sent the following express message to Elizabeth Dollon:

_"Do not believe a word of the Police Headquarters' version which      you will read in this evening's 'La Capitale.
'"_

This despatched, our journalist commenced his article entitled:

STILL THE AFFAIR OF THE RUE NORVINS

_Police Headquarters takes a view of this affair which is the very      reverse of that taken by our contributor, Jerome Fandor._

_By the Seine sewer, the roofs of the Palace, and the chimney of      Marie Antoinette, an inspector has succeeded in reaching the      Depot._

_Police Headquarters is convinced that Jacques Dollon escaped      alive!_

VII

PEARLS AND DIAMONDS

"Nadine!"
"Princess!"
"Nadine, what time is it?"
The young Circassian, with hair as black as ink, souple and slender, rose from her chair and was hastening from the bedroom to ascertain the time when her mistress recalled her:

"Don't go away, Nadine!
Stay with me!"
The dusky Circassian obeyed: she stared with big, astonished eyes into those of her mistress:

"But, Princess, why don't you wish me to go?"
The Princess stammered in a mysterious tone:

"Don't you know then, Nadine, that to-day is the anniversary?...
and I am frightened!"
*       *       *       *       *

Princess Sonia Danidoff was in her bath robe.
It must have been a quarter past eleven, or even nearer midnight than that.
Although she had lived in Paris for years, she had never been able to make up her mind to settle in a flat of her own.
Possessing an immense fortune, she much preferred the American way of living, and had taken a suite of rooms in one of those great palace-hotels near the place de l'Etoile.
Though a very smart staff of servants was reserved for her exclusive use, her favourite attendant was a pretty Circassian, in whom she had absolute confidence.
This Nadine was a native of Southern Russia.
The movement of city life and civilised manners and customs had at first terrified this little savage; but she had learned to adapt herself to her changed surroundings, and was now high in the favour of Princess Sonia.
She, and she alone, was authorised to be present when the beautiful great lady took her daily baths.
For some years past the Princess had insisted on the presence of a maid when she took her baths: without fail they must either be in the bathroom itself, or in the room next to it, within reach or call.
But on this particular evening Sonia Danidoff, more nervous and restless than usual, would not allow Nadine to leave her for a second.
As to the time--well, if she did not know the exact time it could not be helped!
Really it did not matter to her whether she were half an hour or no, for the ball given in her honour by Thomery, the millionaire sugar refiner: in fact, it would be much better to make her appearance after all the guests had assembled--her arrival would give the crowning touch of brilliancy to this society function.
Sonia Danidoff had pronounced the word "anniversary" in a tone of anguish so sincere that Nadine was genuinely alarmed.
She knew, only too well, what this fatal word meant to her mistress.
She had not forgotten that five years ago to the day, just when the Princess was enjoying her evening bath, a mysterious individual had appeared before her, who, after frightening her, had robbed her of a large sum of money.
The adventure would have been little out of the ordinary, for hotel robberies are frequent, had not the audacious bandit been quickly identified as the enigmatic and elusive Fantomas, whose prodigious reputation had only increased with the passage of the years.
Sonia Danidoff, who was not ignorant of the dramatic adventures imputed to this legendary hero, could not bear to think of the position she had been placed in that awful night, when, threatened and robbed by Fantomas, she had escaped death by a series of unknown and unguessable circumstances: the tormenting mystery of it all had preyed insistently upon her mind.
Since then Sonia Danidoff had never taken a bath without thinking of Fantomas; and every year when the anniversary of his aggression came round she suffered cruelly: she was seized with wild, unreasoning fears at the idea that she might see this terrifying bandit appear before her again, and that this time he would be merciless.
Nadine knew all this.
She also shuddered at the vision this horrible anniversary evoked, but controlling herself, she was anxious to change the current of her dear mistress's thoughts:

"Forget, try to forget, Sonia Danidoff," she counselled in her melodious voice: "You are going to a ball--at Monsieur Thomery's--at your fiance's house!"
The Princess shuddered:

"Ah, Nadine, my Nadine!"
she cried, raising herself, and regarding her maid with a strange look: "I cannot overcome my uneasiness--my alarms!...
This coincidence of date agitates me.... You know how superstitious we are at home--in our Russia--and the life I lead in Paris has not destroyed in me the simplicity of soul of a daughter of the Steppes!"
Nadine did not know what reply to make to this pathetic outburst.
The Princess went on:

"And then, do you see, I think it wrong of Monsieur Thomery to even want to give this ball, only a fortnight after the tragic death of that poor Baroness de Vibray!...
I tried to dissuade him from it....
I think the Baroness was his most intimate friend once!..."
"So it is said," murmured Nadine.
Sonia Danidoff went on, as if speaking to herself:

"I am not sure of it ... it is precisely to remove this suspicion from my mind that Thomery was determined to have his ball to-night at all costs!...
The Baroness de Vibray, so he told me, was no more than a good old friend....
I cannot make her death an excuse for putting off the announcement of our marriage ... that would be to give colour to scandal."
Sonia Danidoff shrugged her beautiful shoulders:

"Hand me a mirror!"
Nadine obeyed.
The Princess gazed long and complacently at the marvellously lovely face reflected in the glass.
"Princess," cried Nadine, "you must leave the bath, you will be late otherwise!"
In the adjacent dressing-room, brilliantly illuminated by electric light, the Princess dressed with the aid of Nadine, proud and happy to be the sole assistant of her beloved mistress.
The toilet was a triumph: silk of an exquisite blue, draped with silk muslin incrusted with pointe de Venise and bands of ermine: a costly masterpiece of the dressmaker's art.
It enhanced the brilliant beauty of Sonia Danidoff, and threw Nadine into raptures.
The Princess opened her jewel-box:

"This evening, Nadine, I shall be pearls and diamonds!"
cried the lovely creature, as she fixed two large grey pearls in her ears.
"Oh, how beautiful you are, Princess!
And what a lot they must have cost!"
cried Nadine.
"Ten thousand francs, my child, on each side of my head!"
Sonia slipped on her fingers three diamond rings set in platinum:

"And here are eight or nine thousand francs more," continued she, as Nadine's eyes grew round with wonder: her mind could hardly grasp all these thousands of francs-worth of diamonds and pearls.
There were still more to come; for, rejecting a magnificent bracelet, on the plea that one no longer wore them at balls, the Princess smilingly bade her Circassian fasten round her neck a superb triple collar of pearls.
To this was added a sparkling cascade of diamonds.
Never had Nadine seen her beautiful mistress so richly dressed.
Thus adorned, in Nadine's eyes, Sonia Danidoff was dazzlingly beautiful, exquisitely lovely.
"You look like the Holy Virgin on the icons!"
stammered Nadine, kneeling before her mistress, quite overcome by emotion.
"Good Heavens!
That is blasphemy!
I am only a humble human creature!"
said the Princess smiling.
Then she once more looked at herself in the mirrors, well satisfied with her appearance, certain of the effect she would produce on her future husband Thomery.
She threw over her shoulders a superb mantle of zibeline which was quite needed, for, though it was the middle of April, it was quite cold.
Then, ready at last, she descended to her motor-car, and was whirled away to the ball.
*       *       *       *       *

"Cranajour!...
Cranajour!"
Mother Toulouche shouted herself breathless: she tried to shout louder and louder.
It was in vain.
She might shout herself hoarse--there was no reply.
The old termagant, who had left the front of her hovel and had gone to call her assistant, shouting in the passage at the back of the store, returned cursing and swearing, and seated herself near the store in the lean-to which did duty as a kitchen:

"Where in the devil's name has that imbecile got to?"
she grumbled, whilst sipping with gusts from the bottom of a cup, into which she had poured a small allowance of coffee and a copious ration of rum.
It was about eleven in the evening.
There was not a sound to be heard.
Having finished her rum and tea the old receiver of stolen goods went to the entrance of the passage:

"Cranajour!...
Cranajour!"
yelled the old termagant.
There was no answer.
"He can't possibly be in his canteen," said Mother Toulouche to herself.
"If he was he'd have answered, fool though he is, and would have come down!...
Sure he's gone to drag his old down-at-heels somewhere--but where?...
Oh, well, we can manage to do without him!"
The old receiver went back to her store, and was starting on a queer sort of job when the door, which led on to the quay, burst open before a panting, breathless individual.
He ran right up the store and stopped short.
Mother Toulouche had seized the first thing she could find, and had taken up a defensive attitude.
Her weapon was a great ancient cavalry sabre!
But the newcomer intended no harm--quite the contrary!
After an instinctive recoil, he leaned against a table and wiped his forehead, breathing in gasps, incapable of pronouncing a syllable.
Mother Toulouche had recognised him:

"Ah!
It's you, Redhead!...
And not a bit too soon either!
I've been waiting for you this last half-hour!
Ernestine will be there in ten minutes' time!
However is it you are so late?"
Redhead was well named!
His bullet-head was covered with russet-red hair, cut very short; his complexion was a good match; his bloated cheeks and his potato-shaped nose were covered with red patches; his shaven chin was a tawny red; round his little gimlet eyes was a fringe of red lashes: it was a bestial face.
He was hatless; above his waistcoat with metal buttons he wore a black coat; his trousers had a yellow line down them: he was evidently a servant, wearing the livery of some big house.
The fellow was slowly recovering his breath; but he continued to wipe great drops of sweat off his narrow forehead; he was shaking all over, and his morose countenance was twitching and contracting nervously.
"Well, what's your news?
Good or bad?"
questioned Mother Toulouche in a brutal tone.
Redhead replied almost inaudibly:

"That depends!...
It's good on the whole."
A gleam of cupidity showed in the old receiver's eyes:

"Got a bit of tin on her back, that woman--eh?"
Redhead nodded a "yes."
Thereupon Mother Toulouche went into her back store and returned with a claret glass filled to the brim with rum:

"Shoot that down your throat!
That'll put you right!"
When he had swallowed the bumper he seemed to gain courage, and said:

"If I didn't get here sooner it's because I had to wait--but I saw the little thing...."

"What's her name?"
"Nadine," replied Redhead, and added: "A pretty little brat, too!...
She's got some fire in her eyes!"
"What's that to do with it?"
interrupted Mother Toulouche.
"You don't mean to tell me you were able to make her gabble a bit?"
she queried contemptuously.
Redhead bridled: "Likely, since I know everything now ... and I'm her sweetheart, let me tell you!"
Mother Toulouche said in a jeering tone:

"You don't tell me!
You!"
"Oh," replied Redhead, "it's just a way of speaking.
She's a good little thing--there's nothing to it, you know!"
"So much the worse!"
declared Mother Toulouche.
"Virtuous sorts aren't any use to our lot!...
Well--what did she tell you--out with it!"
"Well," said Redhead, "I waited three-quarters of an hour before Nadine joined me....
I had no bother in making her talk, I can tell you: without the asking she told me everything ... she was pretty well flabbergasted with all the jewels her mistress had stuck on her clothes and her skin....
Seems there's hundreds of thousands' worth!...
All pearls and diamonds!
Nothing but...."

Mother Toulouche was calculating:

"Real pearls, real diamonds--it's possible there's all that worth!"
Steps could be heard on the pavement just outside.
Redhead began to shake all over:

"Who is it?"
he asked.
"Someone coming in?"
Mother Toulouche grinned:

"Be easy, then!
Haven't I told you there's nothing to fear?"
Nevertheless he asked anxiously:

"There's nothing more I'm wanted for here, is there?
I've told you all I know."
"No, no, it's all right!"
replied Mother Toulouche, maternal and conciliating, "there's nothing more for you to do here....
Still, if you want to see big Ernestine...."

Without waiting to hear the end of her sentence Redhead hurried towards the exit.
Mother Toulouche did not try to detain him:

"After all," she said in a low tone to his back as a kind of farewell, "cut your sticks, my lad ... since you're funky!"
When alone she grumbled aloud:

"What a lot they are!...
I never did!...
White-livered, and for nothing at all!"
Mother Toulouche was still muttering when big Ernestine marched in through the back way.
She had on a large hat and was heavily veiled.
She proceeded to remove both hat and veil:

"Well?"
she queried.
"They've got on to it all right!
Redhead has just gone!
He knows through the little maid that the Princess went off to the ball, dressed up to the nines--hung with jewels like a shrine!"
Big Ernestine uttered a deep sigh of satisfaction: her only reply was to hustle the old receiver:

"Look alive, Mother Toulouche!...
You've got to give me a beggar's outfit: it's up to you to see I'm disguised properly, and there's not a minute to lose either!"
Mother Toulouche was an expert at disguises and make-up of every sort: this was not to be wondered at, considering the queer company she kept, and the fraudulent business she carried on, and the smuggling she was mixed up in!
Big Ernestine, disguised as a poverty-stricken creature and rendered unrecognisable, looked exactly like some unfortunate reduced to soliciting alms.
She walked into the back store, and helped Mother Toulouche to take from a cupboard some bottles, bandages, and medicated cotton-wool.
By the light of a smoky lamp the two women scrutinised the labels, sniffing the various phials and flasks.
Big Ernestine, with the aid of Mother Toulouche, prepared compresses of pomade and cotton-wool, on which she sprinkled a few drops of a yellow liquid, giving out a sickening odour.
Besides this big Ernestine put inside her bodice a long phial, after making certain that the mixture, with which it was full, contained chloroform....

Then, under Mother Toulouche's watchful eye, Ernestine prepared what was called in that world of light-fingered gentry "the mask": a mask of cotton, which is moulded by force on the face of the victim in order to plunge him, or her, into a heavy sleep.
Whilst making these sinister preparations the two women talked as they went on with their evil task.
Big Ernestine said, in reply to Mother Toulouche's questionings:

"Oh, it's simple enough!
It's like this:...
When the motor-car stops I shall go to the right-hand door and begin to beg ... likely enough, the Princess won't want to hear what I have to say, but while I attract her attention, Mimile, who will be on the other side, will open the door, and will stick the compress on her mug.... She won't struggle--besides, Mimile will have hold of her--and then I'll have had time to see where her jewels are, and how they are fastened, and then I'll soon have them in my pocket--my deep 'un!"
Mother Toulouche nodded:

"It's arranged all right, but how will you arrest the motor?"
"Oh, that's where the others come in; they'll do it all right....
I expect they're seeing to it now!..."
"But, look here," cried Mother Toulouche, "Mimile isn't in bits then?
They said he had fallen from his flier!"
Big Ernestine gave a laugh:

"He fell right enough, poor little fellow, and from pretty high too--but he's not broken a thing ... not this time ... a bit of luck I don't think--eh?"
"He's a mascot, I'm certain," declared Mother Toulouche.
Then she said: "You spoke of the others?...
Who are they--the others?"
"But didn't they tell you?"
cried the surprised Ernestine, for she thought old Mother Toulouche was in the know: "Why, there's the Beadle--and the Beard...."

"Oh," cried Mother Toulouche, much impressed: "If the Beard's in it, then it's a serious affair!"
"Yes," replied big Ernestine, staring hard at the old receiver of stolen goods: "It's serious all right!
If the chloroform doesn't work--oh, well ... they'll bring the knife into play...."

Big Ernestine looked at her little silver watch to mark the time:

"Past midnight!"
she remarked: "I must hurry off and see what they're up to!"
As she was making off Mother Toulouche stopped her:

"Have a glass of rum to start on--it puts heart into you!"
The two women were quite ready for a drink together.
When they had swallowed their dose, big Ernestine smacked her tongue:

"Famous stuff!...
It puts a heart into you and no mistake!"
"Yes, it's the right stuff--the best," agreed Mother Toulouche: "It's what Nibet prefers!"
she added.
Then she cried: "But Nibet, how ... isn't he in it?"
Big Ernestine put a finger on her lips:

"Nibet's in it of course--as he always is--you know that, old Toulouche--but he's content to show the way--you know he seldom does anything himself ... besides, it seems he's on duty at the depot to-night!"
Big Ernestine threw an old shawl over her head and went off crying:

"I'm off, and in for it now!...
Soon be back, Mother Toulouche!"
*       *       *       *       *

The magnificent mansion of Thomery, the sugar refiner, overlooked the park Monceau.
It was approached by a very quiet little avenue, in which were a few big houses: it opened on to the boulevard Malesherbes, and was known as the avenue de Valois.
All the dwellings there are sumptuous, richly inhabited, and if the avenue is peaceful and silent by day, it is no uncommon thing to see it of an evening crowded with carriages and luxurious motor-cars, come to fetch the owners away to dinners and entertainments.
On this particular evening the approaches to the avenue de Valois were full of animation.
Motors and broughams succeeded one another in a long file, putting down the guests of Thomery under an immense marquee, covering the steps leading up to the vestibule.
All the smart world had been invited to the reception: all Paris swarmed into the brilliantly illuminated entrance-halls of the mansion.
Two mounted policemen sat as immovable as bronze caryatides on either side of the entrance, whilst a swarm of policemen made the carriages move on, and drove away from the aristocratic avenue de Valois the band of poverty-stricken and ragged creatures who crowded the pavement with the hope of securing a handsome tip by opening a carriage door or picking up some fallen object.
It was no easy matter to keep order.
One of the police sergeants accustomed to ceremonial functions remarked to one of his younger colleagues:

"I have seen balls and receptions enough!
Well, my boy, this Thomery affair is as fine a set out as if it were at the President's!"
Although it was one o'clock in the morning, both on the boulevard Malesherbes and at the entrance to the rue de Monceau there was movement and activity.
If, as seemed likely, there was a crush in the great reception-rooms of the Thomery mansion, it was certain that outside the crowd had to form up in line to get near the counters, where the wine sellers were serving their customers without a moment's intermission--serving them with drinks of every description.
Thus there was a hubbub, there was noise and roystering clamour all around.
Most of the chauffeurs, coachmen, and servants knew one another.
Mingling with all this aristocracy of the servant class were pickpockets, mendicants obsequious and wheedling, who offered themselves as understudies to these of the upper ten of the servant world, and these aristocrats were ready to seize this chance of a little liberty, and at the same time play the generous patron to these poor failures in life's battle.
In fact they gave more generous tips than their masters; for did they not rub shoulders with misery and thus realise, only too vividly, the measureless horrors of destitution?
Ernestine and Mimile lost themselves in the noisy crowd.
They were all eyes and ears for everything going on around them, whilst keeping in view their two accomplices, the Beadle and the Beard.
This was more than usually difficult, because they were disguised almost out of recognition.
The Beard was muffled in a blue blouse and a big soft hat, which gave him the look of a peasant, who had wandered into a crowd with which he had nothing in common.
The Beadle was capitally disguised as a coachman in good service who is out of a situation, but who, from vanity and custom, sports the emblems of office.
He was continually chewing a quid of tobacco; for such is the habit of coachmen who cannot smoke on their seats, and thus console themselves with two sous' worth of roll tobacco.
The Beadle stopped beside a chauffeur who had just got down from his car, a magnificent limousine, lined with cream cloth, while its exterior was a dark maroon in the best taste.
"Why, it's Casimir!"
cried the Beadle, going up to the chauffeur with hands outstretched and smiling face.
Mechanically the chauffeur, addressed as Casimir, responded to the offered handclasp.
But, after a short silence, he said in a questioning tone, quite frankly:

"I cannot recall you."
"Can't you remember me!"
cried the Beadle.
"Why, don't you remember Cesar--Cesar who was with Rothschild last year?"
No, Casimir could not remember.
But he was quite willing to believe that he knew Cesar, for he had seen and known so many since he had been in the service of Princess Sonia Danidoff, that there was nothing extraordinary about his forgetfulness.
Besides, Cesar looked quite a decent fellow, and had a taking face, and one only had to look at that beaming countenance of his to be sure that an invitation to take a drink together would soon be forthcoming!
The Beadle, satisfied that he had so easily made a friend of the chauffeur of Sonia Danidoff, whom he had only known by sight for the last forty-eight hours, did in fact suggest their taking a glass together.
The Beadle had indeed come up to expectations!
Drink was Casimir's besetting sin.
Excellent chauffeur, solid and serious fellow as he was, he had two defects: he was addicted to tippling, though he never drank to excess, and never got drunk.
Also, he was fond of a gossip: he could talk for hours without stopping.
The Beadle had been posted up regarding Casimir's little weaknesses and tastes.
Thus nothing was easier than to set trap after trap, into each of which the simple fellow fell as they were set--fell fatally.
The Beadle introduced the Beard to Casimir under the name of Father India-rubber: an old codger, whose trade was to buy and sell tyres to chauffeurs, tyres new and also second-hand.
At this moment a young ragamuffin appeared on the scenes: he asked if he might be left in charge of the car.
It was Mimile.
The young hooligan, who had followed the conversation of the three men, and of Casimir in particular, whilst keeping in the background, now intervened at the right moment.
He made his offer just as the chauffeur was looking about him in hopes of finding some poverty-stricken creatures into whose charge he could give his car.
Casimir gave him twenty sous as an earnest of what was to follow in the way of coin, saying:

"Take great care of my little shanty!
Don't let anyone come mouching around it, and when I return you shall have double what you've just had!"
"Thank you, master!"
cried Mimile, bowing low before the chauffeur: "You may rest assured I shall keep a good look out!"
Mimile exchanged signs of understanding with his two accomplices, whilst they, talking as they went, drew the innocent Casimir towards the nearest tavern, which was crowded with wine-bibbers.
Mimile, as faithful guardian of the limousine, soon got bored, although big Ernestine was prowling around, and came to have a minute's talk with him now and again: they dared not be seen together too much for fear of attracting attention.
As time went on, Mimile was surprised that neither the Beadle nor the Beard came to report progress.
But at long last the majestic outline of the Beard was seen at the corner of the rue Monceau.
The pretended seller of india-rubber was coming out of the tavern.
He hastened to Mimile and, in a low, distinct voice, he gave him some hurried instructions, for now there was no time to lose:

"That idiot would never get done with his stories about motor-cars, and all that stuff and rubbish--what's that to us?
But--keep your ears open now, Mimile--it seems there are still fifteen litres of petrol in the tank, and that would take it a long way, for the motor consumes very little....
But this shanty has got to stop about five hundred yards from here, at the corner of the rue de Monceau and the rue de Teheran ... it's by this way Casimir will take his Baroness back from the ball.... Well, what you have to do is to take fourteen litres and a half from that tank and pitch them in the gutter!...
When Casimir finds that his petrol has given out, he will have to go in search of more ... it's during his absence that we will work the trick on the pretty Princess--we'll perform an operation on her, and amputate her--jewellery--the whole lot!"
The Beard drew from under his blouse an empty bottle, which he had stolen in the tavern:

"Here's your measure!
Count carefully fourteen litres and a half--that done, wait quietly till Casimir turns up: your part in the story will be forty sous, and not to rouse his suspicions; then, while he goes up the avenue de Valois to take up the Princess, you and Ernestine have to gallop off to the corner of the rue de Monceau and the rue de Teheran, then ...
wait!"
*       *       *       *       *

Mimile, with the agility of a monkey and the ability of a first-rate chauffeur--for there was nothing he did not know in the way of applied mechanics, as became an aviator--executed to the letter his accomplice's orders.
The Beard meanwhile had returned to the tavern and Casimir.
*       *       *       *       *

Suddenly, all was activity in the world of carriages and coachmen!
The great ball was drawing to its end.
Casimir was once more in possession of his motor, and had generously tipped his understudy: thereupon the hooligan had made off as fast as his legs could carry him.
Ernestine joined him at the appointed spot: there the two rogues waited.
"Listen!"
cried big Ernestine some fifteen minutes later.
She stared in the direction of the boulevard Malesherbes, with neck outstretched and straining eyeballs.
At last, after an agonising wait, she and Mimile saw the carriages driving by.
"Attention!"
cried big Ernestine in a sharp whisper ... "everybody's on the move at last!"
*       *       *       *       *

The Beadle and the Beard, hidden in the crowd which thronged the approaches to the Thomery mansion, awaited the departure of Princess Sonia Danidoff: the idea of this rich prey excited them.
Then as they stared at the first outflow of departing guests, the two bandits could not but notice that far from looking gay and animated as people do who have danced and supped well, these guests of Thomery showed pale, dejected faces: in fact, they had all the appearance of people under the influence of some tragic emotion.
"They look pretty down in the mouth, don't they?"
whispered the Beard in the Beadle's ear.
"That's a fact!
You'd think they were returning from a funeral!"
Then a vague rumour began to circulate; confirmation followed, spread insensibly within the Thomery mansion, was passed on by the lackeys, spread from the pavements to the avenue.
People whispered of incomprehensible things incredible, but which little by little took definite shape.
It was said that the Thomery ball had just become the scene of an accident, of a drama, of a robbery, of a crime!...
The police, and of the highest grade, had intervened....
The news spread like a train of ignited gunpowder....
Nevertheless, if Thomery's guests were cognisant of the details, they did not take the beggars and pickpockets into their confidence: among the light-fingered gentry conjectures were rife.
The Beadle and the Beard, who tried to catch odds and ends of talk separately, joined each other again, looking crestfallen, discomfited.
The Beadle broke silence, with an oath, adding:

"I am certain we have been done ... someone has got in before us--been too smart for us!"
Beard nodded: he was of the same opinion.
But who then could have had the audacity to plan such an attempt and carry it out, too?
Who could have had the same idea as he and his comrades, and to realise it successfully?
Whoever it was had proved himself the better man.
In spite of himself the bandit, in thought, formulated one word:

Fantomas!
VIII