CHAPTER I

"Oh!
Chiang Nan's a hundred li, yet in a moment's space   I've flown away to Chiang Nan and touched a dreaming face."
--TS'EN-TS'AN.
A young man can get himself into trouble in China.
He may refuse to eat the food that is pushed into his mouth at a Chinese banquet by the perfectly well-intentioned man sitting beside him.
In that case he will hardly do more than arouse the contempt of his beneficiary and his host.
He simply shows that he lacks good Chinese table manners, for at a Chinese banquet it is proper to stuff food into your companion's mouth, no matter how full his stomach may be.
Another way to offend the Chinese is to refuse a gift.
But these are minor things.
The surest method to arouse the suspicion, dislike and animosity of China is deliberately to keep your affairs shrouded in mystery.
Discuss your important business secrets in loud shouts; no one will pay the slightest attention.
But whisper mysteriously in your friend's ear, and spies will attend you!
Leave a note-book filled with precious data plainly in view upon your dressing-table, and your room-boy won't for the life of him peek into it.
Lock that same note-book away in a dressing-table drawer, and your room-boy will move heaven and earth to find out what it's all about!
The time of the day was mid-forenoon; the time of the year was spring.
The low, mournful voice of a temple gong floated across the race of brown water.
River _fokies_, on sampans and junks, were singing their old work song, the Yo-ho--hi-ho!
of the ancient river, as their naked, broad backs bent to the sweeps.
A pleasant breath of perspiring new earth was drifting down the great stretch of yellow water on a light, warm wind.
Peter had taken his favorite stand on the upper-boat deck, where the wireless shack was situated, with one hand wrapped loosely about a davit guy, the other thoughtfully rattling a cluster of keys in his pocket.
Spring is for youth, and Peter was young; yet he did not reflect in any way the mood of the new season.
He felt gloomy and depressed.
Life seemed an empty, a dreary thing to Peter, because he could see himself getting nowhere.
In spite of the sweet candor of the young spring day, one of the first sounds that came to his ears as he stood there, in the shadow of the life-boat, was the brazen clamor of a death cymbal.
One of China's four hundred millions had died in the night; now his spirit was being escorted to the seventh heaven of his blessed forefathers, by the death cymbal, clashing with a sober din to drive the devils away from his late abode.
The shadow of the life-boat was rather unaccountably attenuated; Peter turned around and looked into the bland, unsmiling face of Jen, a Chinese deck-boy.
Pig-tails were coming back in style again.
About six inches of wispy, purple-black braid extended downward from Jen's white cap.
His face was quite yellow, and his eyes were green.
An understandable light came and flickered across their satiny surface as Peter looked inquiringly into them.
"Wanchee my?"
he asked.
The deck-boy took a cautious and all inclusive look of the broad, gray deck, bending head to look past the giant funnels, the first of which stood about twenty feet forward of them.
"Stay allatime on _King Asia_?"
inquired the Chinese, moiling his hands together and bowing slightly.
Peter gave him a blue-eyed, indolent stare.
"Maybe.
Maybe not," he said.
"What's on your mind, Jen?"
"You tell me what going do," replied the yellow one meaningly.
"Can do?"
"Mebbe can do," replied Peter, folding his hands.
"You run up to the place on Jen Kee Road as soon as you catchee sampan.
Tell man-man if I decide to do anything I will drop in and tell him.
You don't know, Jen, but he knows that my word is good.
If I decide to go up-river I'll tell man-man.
If I decide to do nothing, I'll say nothing to man-man."
"Allee light, allee light," said Jen, backing away a few steps.
"You tell man-man, eh?"
As Peter watched the retreating skinny shoulders bob up and down as they went away from him toward the after ladder, he felt just a little more undecided than he had five minutes earlier.
He went into the wireless-room, to straighten up the apparatus before locking the door for the visit in Shanghai.
As he was locking the tool-box--the Chinese river thieves would steal anything they could lay hands on--he heard his name called in a silvery voice accompanied by a man's pleasant laugh, and he went out on deck to find that Mr. Andover, with the twins in tow, was all dressed up for a trip ashore.
The twins and Anthony Andover were passengers, bound on a sight-seeing trip through the East, and as Peter Moore was a very impressionable young man, it is only natural that the twins be discussed first, in virtue of their loveliness.
Peter had first contemplated Peggy and Helen Whipple in the _King of Asia's_ dining-room.
It would have been a rather impossible thing not to see Peggy and Helen Whipple, if you were young, and with fair eyesight.
At the first dinner after leaving the Golden Gate Peter had gone into the dining-room rather early, as he skipped tiffin (by reason of an empty pocket) and was ravenously hungry.
He had looked up over his first spoonful of mulligatawny a la Capron to meet the clear, undistilled, brown-eyed gaze of Peggy Whipple, who had seated herself at the captain's table.
In that liquid, brown-eyed gaze had lurked a sparkle of mischief, a slightly arrogant look of inquisitive scrutiny, and perhaps a playful invitation.
As Peggy Whipple gave him that mischievous, liquid-brown glance when he was in the act of lifting a level soupspoonful to his lips, he did not, as a man might do under the circumstances, spill the soup upon the tablecloth, or back into the dish; nor did he pause in the work of lifting the liquid to his mouth.
He did not have to look at the spoon to guide its passage to his mouth.
Without spilling a drop, he captained the spoon to its destination, maintaining his clear, deep-blue eyes upon the beautiful brown ones of the young passenger.
And, without lowering his eyes once, he lifted the loaded spoon up twice in succession.
This skillful management brought a smile to the pretty face of the girl.
Perhaps she had expected him to spill the soup under her glance; it was to be expected; more than probably the thing had happened in past episodes of Peggy, for she was distractingly fair to look upon, and her turned-up nose should have disarmed any man.
Her hair was golden and sleek and drawn back straight from her low, white forehead and knotted together in the back, calling attention to a neck that was slim and beautifully proportioned.
Pink and white and gold described her.
She seemed to bristle with a sort of fidgety energy, as if she had so much youth and loveliness stored up in her that she had a tremendous time keeping it all within bounds.
After Peter had slowly, but not at all insolently or impudently, taken all of this in, in the time required to stow away three heaping spoonfuls of mulligatawny a la Capron, by dead reckoning, she looked away from him with a little pout.
Peter followed her glance.
He had not noticed the other girl before.
It was evident that they were of the same blood, but the other girl seemed older.
She, too, had sprung from a brown-eyed ancestry, and she, too, was blond and pink and lovely, with the prettiest fingers and finger-nails Peter had seen for some time.
Her glance, arising to meet his, was brown and very calm; unlike her sister, she appeared to be grave, more of the deliberate, thoughtful type.
It was in the shop of a Japanese silk merchant on Motomatchi Chome that he had met them for the first time.
Several times on the trip across he had passed them on the deck, always escorted by proud young men.
They were the most popular girls on shipboard.
Beauty rarely travels in pairs; these were unusual twins.
Once, as Peter was swinging down the ladder from topside, he came upon Peggy alone, looking rather blue.
It may have been that she was simply in repose; and the contrast gave him that impression.
Her eyes dreamingly encountered his, and the mischievous light flickered in them and instantly went out.
She ran her eyes down the white uniform with the gold emblems of his profession at the lapels, dropped her eyelids demurely, and seemed to wait.
He hesitated, and she stood still; but he passed on, leaving her staring after him with a little pout.
Obviously the twins had traveled much!
CHAPTER II

It was on the night that the _King of Asia_ cleared Nagasaki for the short run across the Yellow Sea into the flow of the Yangtze-Kiang that Peter was sought out by that pleasant young man, Anthony Andover.
Ordinarily passengers were not allowed in the sacred quarters of the wireless house.
However, those who possessed daring spirits came up anyway.
Peggy Whipple came up there soon after that meeting on deck, with permission from nobody, and Peter gave her about fifteen minutes of his extremely important time on the average of nine times a day, permitting her to adorn the extra chair in the wireless shack, where she unconsciously revealed in her sudden and unexpected shiftings of posture, several inches of adorable silken ankle.
I think Peggy was sadly in need of an elderly chaperone, and I am somehow under the impression that Peggy very badly wanted Peter to make love to her.
How he resisted her speaks volumes for his quaint, mid-Victorian views regarding woman.
And at the end of the fifteen minutes, after regaling her with tales of the lands she was about to visit, he dismissed her, kindly but with great firmness, and she was as obedient as a lamb.
Anthony Andover, who knew more about plows perhaps than the Egyptians, gave him something else to think about.
He looked up from his instruments that evening to see a young man of medium height, slim of build, and rather pale and sharp of mien.
"My name is Anthony Andover," he said in a brisk and business-like voice.
"I wonder if I could have a talk with you."
Peter told him to sit down, and he removed the heavy nickeled head-pieces from his ears.
He expected an important radio from the Shanghai Station; but that could wait.
He wondered what Anthony Andover might have on his mind.
"Mr. Moore, I'm in something of a devil of a fix, and I think you're the man who can get me out of it."
"Shoot," said Peter, lighting a yellow cigarette and passing the box.
"Chinks?"
Trouble to Peter always meant Chinks; they were his symbol of danger.
"No, no!
You see, all of my life I've been--well, a city man.
The biggest adventure I ever had was a fist fight with my foreman.
Now----"

"Did you lick him?"
asked Peter with concern.
Anthony nodded reminiscently.
"Blacked his eyes and busted his nose!"
"Good for you!
Go ahead with your story."
"I've met a girl on the steamer, and according to her way of looking at things, I lack about five thousand different parts of being a hero.
You know the girl.
That's why I'm bothering you like this."
"Not bothering me a bit.
Who's the girl?"
"Peggy."
Anthony caressed the word as if it were honey.
"Peggy Whipple.
Of course, the first thing I want to make sure of is, am I stepping on anybody's toes?
If I am, I'll just go ahead, and play my own game my own way.
If it's to be a case of a fight----"

"Hold on a moment," interrupted Peter.
"I don't quite follow you.
Whose toes do you think you're stepping on?"
"Well, Peggy comes up here to the wireless shack so much, that I--I----"

"Oh, not a bit of it, old man.
Peggy's a nice girl.
I like her.
That's all."
"I--I'm mighty glad," said Anthony earnestly.
"You know, she's pretty mad about you, but as long as you're not interested the way I am, well----"  He bit his lip nervously, and went on: "I think you'd agree with me that it would be rather foolish of her, and very disappointing and disillusioning later on for her to marry the kind of a man she thinks she wants to marry.
She has a notion that the man she marries must be a cross between Adonis, and--and Diamond Dick!
She wants a man who carries six-shooters in all his pockets, and who fears neither God, man, nor the devil!"
"A regular hell buster!"
"That's it!
Down in her heart I think she cares for me a little bit.
But I'm nothing but a plain, ordinary business man.
I never did anything devilish in my life.
There's nothing romantic about me.
Look at this necktie!
Did you ever see a hero wearing a plain black four-in-hand?
Never!
Did you ever see a hero wearing nice tan oxfords without a spot of mud on them?
If I can somehow manage to make her think for a few minutes that I've got heroic stuff in me, she may listen to a little sense.
She tells me--rather she threw it in my face--that you are going to take Helen and her on a sight-seeing trip into some of the darkest holes in Shanghai.
You know the ropes, and there's no danger, of course."
"None at all," said Peter.
"Well, I want to know if you'll let me go along.
I'll stand every expense; I've got money to burn!
Let me in on it, and----"

"But there isn't going to be a chance for anybody to be a hero.
I'm going to take those girls to the safest place in Shanghai.
A New England church would be a cavern of iniquity alongside of it!"
Anthony laid his fingers along his knees.
"Well, couldn't you stir up something?
That's my idea.
I'll leave it to you to crack up some danger, not real danger, of course--we can't let those girls get near any real danger.
But we can start a fake fight--or something--and give me a chance to play the hero, to rescue Peggy in my arms; that sort of stuff, you know."
He looked at Peter foolishly.
Peter stroked his nose.
"It might be done," he said.
"I'll see what I can do."
Anthony arose, extended his hand, and said: "Of course, I'll need a revolver."
"Load it with blanks," advised Peter.
"You know, some people think it's bad luck to kill a Chink."
Anthony was eyeing him curiously.
"Do you?"
he asked.
Peter nodded his head slowly.
"Sometimes," he said.
CHAPTER III

Anthony and the twins called for Peter as soon as they could tear themselves away from the many fascinating incidents attendant upon coming to an anchorage in the Whang-poo-Kiang.
It was late in the afternoon when the first company tug came down-river from Shanghai for passengers.
And it was nearly dusk, the golden-brown evening of China, when they were decanted upon the public landing stage at the International Concession.
Anthony was for going directly to the Hotel Astor for dinner, but at Peter's suggestion he and the twins boarded a street-car for the ride to Bubbling Wells.
Peter stood for a number of moments in indecision as the Bubbling Wells tram went up the bund with the slow flood of victorias, rickshaws, and wheelbarrows.
It was now about seven o'clock, with the sun hidden under a horizon of dull bronze.
Street lights were coming on, twinkling in a long silver serpent along the broad thoroughfare, rising in a grotesque hump over the Soochow bridge, and becoming lost in the American quarter.
He would meet Anthony and the twins in the dining-room.
Whoever got there first would wait.
He expected to be there long before his three friends came back from Bubbling Wells.
A rickshaw coolie was wheedling him at his elbow but he paid no attention.
His eyes were searching the street.
It took him several seconds to reconcile himself to the fleeting apparition.
What was this girl doing in Shanghai?
The rickshaw had passed, proceeding at unabated speed in the direction of Native City.
The rickshaw boy was still making guttural sounds, softly plucking at his sleeve.
The shafts of the rickshaw were close to his feet.
But Peter was still undecided.
"Allee right," said Peter, briskly.
"French concession."
That was the direction in which the other rickshaw was headed.
He climbed aboard, and they veered out into the north-bound traffic.
The girl in the rickshaw was about one block in the lead, and had no intention evidently of accelerating her coolie's pace or of turning back.
She had left all decision to him, and his decision was to ask her a few questions.
His coolie trotted heavily, looking neither to the right nor left, with his pigtail snapping from side to side, as his head bent low.
"Follow _lan-si_ veil--savvy?"
"My savvy," returned the coolie, heading toward the narrow alley of filth and sputtering oil _dongs_, breathing the odor of refuse, of cooking food.
Peter's heart was beginning to respond to the excitement.
Did she have some message to convey to him that she could not trust to the openness of the bund at the jetty?
Suddenly the rickshaw ahead swerved sharply to the right into an alley that was perfectly dark.
Its single illumination was a pale-blue light which burned before a low building set apart from the others at the far end.
Here the first rickshaw stopped.
A ghostly figure seemed to float to the ground.
There was a clink of coins.
A door opened, letting out a wide shaft of orange light which spattered across the paving, flattening itself against the grim wall of the building across the way.
Peter caught the bronze glint of wires on the roof under a pale moon.
He knocked sharply on the door, and stood to one side.
It was a habit he had learned from long experience--that trick of stepping to one side when he knocked at a suspicious door.
The door moved outward a few inches.
A long, yellow face, with a thick, projecting under lip, peered out.
Peter pushed the man aside and entered.
He found himself in a low corridor of smoked wood, with fat candles disposed along the walls at intervals of several yards, on a narrow, lacquered rail.
One of three doors was open.
A match was struck, the head glowing in a semi-circle of sputtering iridescence before the wood itself kindled.
The hand holding the match was trembling; the weak flame fluttered to such an extent that he was denied momentarily a glimpse of the owner of the hand.
A whisper was conveying an order to him.
"Please shut the door, Mr.
Moore."
He reached for the door and closed it firmly in the face of the man who had let him into this place.
When he turned, the trembling hand was applying the match flame to the wick of an open lamp, a rather ornate _dong_.
As the flame rose higher, casting its steady, mild luminance, he caught a glitter of metal, of polished rubber; one end of the room was almost filled with machinery.
"Romola Borria!"
She seemed to have undergone a great change.
The beautiful face that had lured him once into the jaws of death was dominated now by a wistful and tender sadness, as though this girl had gone through an epoch of self-torture since they had last been together.
Yet she was still beautiful; it was as if her beauty had been refined in an intense fire.
Her mouth was sad, her great brown eyes glowed with an inexpressible sadness, and her face, once oval and proud, seemed narrower, whiter, and, by many degrees, of a finer mold.
She was examining him broodingly; there was a reluctant timidity in her eyes; it was such a look as you may see years afterward in the woman you once have cast aside for some other, perhaps not quite so worthy.
"Well, you have found me, Peter," she said in a faint and tired voice, coming slowly toward him.
"Yes," he admitted, lamely: "I saw you passing the jetty.
I followed--naturally.
I have just come from America."
"Oh."
Her voice expressed no surprise.
"You came for me, Peter?"
"I thought you were dead," he confessed.
"Well, I am a hard one to kill!"
A tiny smile flickered across her fine lips.
"You are not married--to Eileen?"
"No--and never!"
he said dully.
"But you must be in love!
You are always in love--with some one."
"I am in love with no one."
"Not even----"

"I am in love with no one."
"Nor am I," said Romola Borria quietly.
It seemed to come from her as a vast and reluctant confession.
"I loved only one man, and my love for him is quite dead.
If I should rake over the embers--oh, but I have raked them over, Peter, many, many times--and I have found not one single small ember glowing!
When love dies, you know, it requires a great fire to rekindle it.
Oh, I have suffered!"
"He--is dead?"
She smiled again, rather ironically.
"Can a man live with a bullet in his heart?"
"I--I saw.
I thought--but what does it matter what I thought?"
He was trying to inject some of his old spirit into his voice.
It was rather difficult, this business of laughing at the funeral of love.
"Romola, you are more beautiful!"
"I have suffered," she said, in the same restrained voice.
He turned away with a shrug.
He, too, had suffered, but in a somewhat different light.
He was examining with a professional eye the heap of apparatus which was arranged in splendid order along the back of the small room.
"I am studying.
You see, Peter," she explained, in the same rather recriminatory tones, "I was rather fond of you at one time----"

"Romola, please----"

"And because it was your profession I became interested in it.
I heard the message you sent last night--to--to the place on Jen Kee Road.
I was quite worried for a while."
"That was why you happened along the bund about the time the boat came up-river?"
"Perhaps."
She smiled vaguely.
"You wanted to find out if I still cared enough for you to----"

"Follow me?
Yes, Peter; I think that was why."
"Then you didn't know I was on my way to China?"
"No, Peter, I knew nothing."
"Aren't you connected with my good friend, the man with the sea-lion mustaches, in Len Yang?"
Romola gave a short gasp.
"I never was connected with him."
"But you told me you were--back there on the _Persian Gulf_!"
She shook her head slowly, with a gentle firmness.
"No.
I did not tell you that.
I have seen him; yes.
But I was never in his employ.
It was Emiguel Borria, my late and--may I say?--my unlamented husband, who made me do those things.
Peter----"

Her attitude seemed to undergo some sort of subtle change, as if she were bitterly amused.
"You say you are not in love.
Then what of the little golden-haired girl--the two little golden-haired girls--you left this afternoon on the bund?"
"They and the young man are passengers on the _King of Asia_.
I brought them ashore to give them an insight into China-as-it-really-is."
"They are in very capable hands, then, Peter.
Aren't you running some risk, though?
Isn't there some chance that the men in the Jen Kee Road place may take it into their heads----"

"I am on my word of honor, Romola.
I have come back to China, not to start trouble, but simply because--well, why are you in China?"
"Because I haven't the will to leave, perhaps.
I stay here in the same spirit that a man or a woman lingers before a dreadful oil painting, like the shark picture of Sorolla; it is terrible, but it is fascinating.
I cannot leave.
If I did, I would come back, as you come back, time after time.
Is that why you've come back?"
"Exactly."
"And you imagine you're running no risk with the two golden-haired maids in tow?"
Peter shook his head thoughtfully.
"Perhaps I shouldn't have exposed them to danger.
But they were determined, and it's partly to help the young man.
Anthony is a plain American business man.
He's in love with the youngest.
And she, a hero worshipper.
He wants to demonstrate himself."
She interrupted in a whisper.
"Peter, tell me, why is it?
What have you ever done?
What do you say?
Why--why is it?"
Peter the Brazen was looking at her blankly.
She made a gesture of resignation with her beautiful white hands.
"Well, never mind.
Tell me more about Anthony."
"Anthony believes that if he can demonstrate his valor to Peggy, she will come to his arms.
He really is a fine, upstanding fellow.
I had intended bringing them to Ching Tong's place out Bubbling Wells way, harmless enough and watched by the police of nine nations.
Ching Tong, being a friend who will put himself out for me, will play the part of a very bad villain.
Anthony's revolver is loaded with blanks.
Mine isn't, but that's just my cowardly nature.
You can never tell what might turn up, you know."
"Naturally.
Go on."
"I intend to have Ching Tong stage a very realistic fight down in his cellar, in which Anthony can overpower eight or ten Chink giants, escape out of the window with the fainting Peggy in his arms, and--and----"

"Simple enough," admitted Romola, with a mild frown.
She drew him to a broad, low bench.
"Somehow," she went on, "your idea rather appeals to me, too.
I liked Anthony's looks--what I saw of him.
And I rather liked the two little girls--twins, aren't they?"
Peter nodded.
"The heavenly twins!"
"I think I'd quite agree with that plan, Peter, if you didn't happen to be in such disrepute in this neighborhood.
You must realize that the Gray Dragon's men are watching you.
Of course, you didn't recognize your rickshaw coolie.
He is one of the Gray Dragon's men--naturally.
Don't you think you are exposing those two nice girls unnecessarily to danger?"
Peter lighted two cigarettes, and passed one of them to Romola.
She accepted it with an air of abstraction and puffed slowly, blowing out a thin stream of pale smoke.
"But circumstances are changed now.
You see, I am on the fence--perfectly safe."
"They are still anxious for you to come with them?"
"That's it.
They sent a representative last trip all the way to San Francisco."
"Of course you refused?
Peter----"  Her soft, white hand was resting on his; her red lips were very close to his face.
"Why don't you join them?
You and I!"
"You and I?"
She nodded earnestly.
Peter drew back a few inches.
"I said 'no' when you asked me that before.
No, I'll have nothing to do with that band--never!
Going out into the wilderness, up into the mountains on some of their risky errands--with you--might have appealed to me.
Not now!"
"Peter, I am afraid I still love you!"
"And yet, Romola, I'm not afraid of falling in love with you--again!
But let's not speak of joining that man in Len Yang.
What you're offering is--too tempting.
I might give in!
You are altogether too fascinating!"
"Am I?"
"I've told you that before."
"Then you will go up-river with me?"
"No--never!
Why, you almost make me suspect that you're still in that beast's employ."
"I never was.
I told you that."
"You've said many things that didn't stand the acid, Romola."
He stood up, looking down at her with whimsical tenderness.
She was very beautiful, and when she took on that forlorn air she had the appearance of a helpless, small girl.
He wondered if he would ever regret his refusal.
"Ching Tong must have time to make arrangements, and I have a dinner engagement at the Astor House with Anthony and the heavenly twins.
Can't you and I have tea to-morrow afternoon?"
Romola came to him and put her two hands on his shoulders.
"No," she said.
"We must not be seen together.
It may mean danger for you.
I've been thinking over your plan to convert Anthony into an adventurer.
Why not bring them all here.
I have seven servants, all Chinese, and they would give their lives for me.
Let me see----"  She bit her upper lip thoughtfully.
"You can tell them that this place is--well, the heart of the Chinese smuggling trade.
It's ridiculous, but it will appeal to them.
I will dress up as a Chinese woman--oh, I've done it dozens of times in the past--and I shall be very mysterious.
That will seem much more romantic to Peggy than a mere opium den.
And it will be safer.
I know Ching Tong's shop.
It might do, if you were an ordinary person, Peter, but such an adventure should be provided with at least five times as many exits!
I have them here."
Peter looked at her doubtingly, although the idea appealed to him.
Outriding his admiration of the idea, however, was a recurrence of his old impression of Romola Borria.
He knew that he never had been a match for her cunning, her esoteric knowledge of China.
"I have plenty of make-up pots.
I'll paint up these _fokies_ to look like bandits!
I'll have knives in their belts.
And I'll plan the rehearsal before you come.
Everything will be arranged."
She seemed to hesitate.
"You--you won't bring that dreadful automatic revolver of yours loaded--will you?"
Peter smiled faintly.
CHAPTER IV

A light spring rain was drizzling down when Peter ordered four rickshaws of the proud Sikh who stood guard over the porte cochere of the Astor House.
Long bright knives of light slithered across the wet pavement from the sharp arc lights on the Soochow bridge.
The ghostly superstructure of a large and silent junk was thrown in silhouette against the yellow glow of a watchman's shanty across the dark canal, as it moved slowly in the current toward the Yellow Sea.
It was a desolate night.
The streets were deserted except for an occasional rickshaw with some mysterious bundled passenger, the footfalls of the coolies sounding with a faint squashing as of drenched sandals, slimy with the heavy sludge of the back-village streets.
The world was lonely and awash.
Peter busied himself with Peggy's comfort when the first rickshaw, dripping and wet, rattled up.
He drew the waterproof robe up under her chin and fastened the loops, then tucked it in under her feet.
Her cheeks were glowing with the pink of her excitement.
Anthony meanwhile gave similar attention to the other twin.
Peter glanced at his watch as they climbed in.
He wondered how Anthony might be taking his first and relatively unimportant lap of their adventure, and he instructed his coolie, in "pidgin," to drop behind.
Clear gray eyes shone with a confident reassurance.
"You mustn't hit too hard, and be careful if you shoot your revolver to discharge it in the air.
At close range even the wads from the blank cartridges are rather deadly."
Anthony's clear voice came across to him: "Of course."
They stopped at length before the rambling structure which was the abode of Romola Borria.
The lamp was extinguished, probably beaten out long before by the pelting rain.
Only a pale glow emanated from the place, this from a tiny upstairs window, covered over with oiled paper, and the only sounds were the ceaseless drip of the rain and the low gibberings of the coolies as they examined the coins given them in the greasy light of the rickshaw lanterns.
Peggy, slipping her arm through Peter's and hugging him close to her, trembled with the excitement of anticipation.
"We must not be separated," he warned them in a whisper.
"Whatever happens--Peggy and Helen--stand close to us.
In case of trouble, each of you stand behind whichever of us is nearest.
Don't scream.
Don't show any money.
Peggy, put your pocketbook in your shirt-waist.
Now--ready?"
"Yes!"
came the threefold whispering chorus.
He raised his knuckles, and brought them down sharply--three times rapidly, twice slowly.
Silence followed, the bristling silence of an aroused house.
Slowly the door gave way, and a villainous-looking old Chinese in black beckoned with a long snake-like finger for them to enter.
Only two candles now were burning on the lacquered rail in the smoky corridor.
Curtains at the rear parted; there was a sweep of heavy silken garments, and a white-faced and beautiful woman made her way toward them.
Deft employment of the make-up pot and painstaking searchings through a great number of trunks had blended a picture that was all but melodramatic.
Romola Borria's wonderful dark hair was arranged in a great heap which sloped backward from her head.
Her face was chalk white, from a bath in rice powder; her fine lips were curled in the most sinister of smiles; and her eyes glowed with a splendid abandon.
She looked wicked; she radiated cruelty.
And the twins gasped in sweet horror.
It is probable that twin trickles of icy excitement chased up and down their twin spines.
Anthony gaped, and his gray eyes expressed an unbounded infatuation.
With a gracious stealth she moved beyond them, not once lowering her magnificent eyes, and shot a huge brass bolt in the door.
They formed an expectant, a worshipful semicircle.
In a low voice Peter made the introductions, dwelling at fastidious length upon the tremendous villainy of this slender sorceress, who swept him all the time with a proud and disdainful fire.
She nodded stiffly at intervals.
"The Princess Meng Da Tlang has a word to say to you."
He bowed profoundly.
"It is only this," said Romola Borria in tones as rich as the Kyoto temple gong, "what you have thus far seen, and what you are about to gaze upon, must always--forever--remain a secret within your hearts.
Follow me."
Romola, or the Princess Meng Da Tlang, floated down the dim corridor with a further silken rustle of skirts, and drew back the curtain at the far end.
The quartette filed into a large and lofty room, flickering under the pallid flames of candles.
The wax dripping from some of these hung like icicles or stalactites from the shallow bronze cups, and they illuminated a scene that was bizarre.
The walls were burdened with heavy rugs which responded with a waxen sheen to the mystic light of the candles, and they were of the sombre hues of the China that passed its zenith many centuries ago.
They served to give this place a solemn air of vast dignity and richness.
Along the inner wall, placed so that it squarely commanded the doorway, grinned a huge green image of Buddha, surrounded by a clutter of brass candlesticks and mounted on a splendid throne of brass filigree underneath which red flames were burning.
The odor of costly incense was heavy and sweet, the smoke from a brazier arising in a thin, motionless blue spar which, when it had climbed up through the air for a distance of about four feet, broke into a sort of turquoise fan and this drifted on up to the ceiling in heavy wisps.
The incense pot was very old, of black lacquer and brass, greened with blotches of erosion.
And above the green image of Buddha, before which the Princess Meng Da Tlang was now kneeling and moaning in a faint voice, reposed a very realistic skull and cross-bones.
Across the forehead of this hideous reminder of the hereafter was a deep green notch, attesting in all probability to the cause of the luckless owner's death.
"Please be seated--there," Romola requested.
Her graceful, ivory-white arm indicated with a queenly gesture a heavily carved ebony bench, and her guests filed expectantly to this seat.
Peggy, with a long sigh, dragged Peter into the corner.
"I'm almost scared.
Oh, oh, isn't this simply romantic!"
she whispered.
Helen and Anthony gravely occupied the space on the other side of them.
The Princess Meng Da Tlang was moving gracefully toward the doorway through which they had entered.
"I--I'm really a little afraid!"
whispered Peggy, with her lips so close to Peter's ear that he could feel her warm breath against his neck.
"Put your arms around me--please!"
Peter slipped his arm behind her and around her.
He squeezed her.
"Oh," sighed Peggy, "this is grand!"
Helen gave her a sidelong look of surprise.
"Peggy, I think you're hardly discreet."
"Let me die while I'm happy!"
grinned Peggy.
She turned a wistful face to Peter.
"Did you ever put your arm around another woman before?"
she whispered.
"Heaven forbid!"
groaned Peter.
"Don't I act like an amateur?"
"No; you don't!"
Romola was holding back the curtains while a troop of four men, muddy and wet, as if from long travel, moved silently into the large room.
"Mongolian smugglers," Peter whispered.
The four large men crossed the room with dignified tread, depositing four small bundles wrapped in blue silk at the altar of Buddha.
Then they removed straw-matting rainproofs which dangled from their broad shoulders to their muddy sandals.
They were garbed in black silk and fastened at the belt of each was a kris, curved and flashing where the golden candle light skimmed along the whetted steel.
After depositing their slight burdens they bowed low before the altar, muttered deep in their throats, arose and salaamed gravely, until the four pigtails flapped on the heavy blue rug at Romola's bare feet.
She wore no sandals, which was probably the custom among pirate princesses.
When the men were gone, Romola drew back a rug which hung close to the altar, revealing a small cupboard flush with the wall.
Even Anthony looked at the black door and the brass hasp with his gray eyes round in wonder and interest.
After disposing of the four silken parcels, Romola addressed them in a mysterious voice: "Those packages contain gems; diamonds, rubies, pearls from the Punjab, from Bengali, from Burma."
"Can we see them?"
pleaded Helen in rapt tones.
"Aw, please!"
inserted Peggy in an angelic whisper.
Romola raised both of her hands as if in horror.
"They would tempt even a saint," she muttered.
"Be careful," warned Peter, laying his lips to Peggy's pink ear, "the princess has a terrible temper.
She has been known to strangle a man for less than that!"
"I don't believe it!"
retorted Peggy.
"I think the princess is just too sweet for anything."
Romola gave Peter a look of indolent inquiry.
She arose abruptly.
"You must have some of my spiced wine.
It is really delicious.
_P'eng-yu_ Moore, we won't bother the servants; won't you help me?"
Peggy folded her hands demurely in her lap.
"I hope it isn't intoxicating," she murmured.
Romola had moved graciously across the room, where in a bronze jardiniere protruded the dusty, slender necks of tall bottles.
She knelt before this.
"Nearer," she whispered, as he followed suit.
"Peter, tell me----"

"Yes, Romola?"
"What does this little girl mean to you?"
Peggy's clear voice sounded: "Peter, my throat is dusty!"
"In a minute, Peggy," he called back.
Lowering his voice again: "She's merely a child.
But why----"

"Peter, I've gone to more trouble to-night than you realize, perhaps----"

"What do you want me to do?"
"I want you to stop making love to that innocent child."
The innocent child's sweet voice was clamoring again.
"Peter, the Sahara Desert is a flowing river compared with my throat!"
"All right, Peggy; in a minute."
"You said once that you--loved me."
"I still stand by my guns.
But I don't love any one now.
You're a temptress, Romola.
Why, you are a princess!
I never saw you more beautiful than to-night!"
"Peter, can't you realize what a dreary life I've led since that night you ran away from me in Hong Kong?
Won't you--for me--because I want it--because I want _you_--reconsider, won't you stop, and think, and----"

"We're getting back to forbidden grounds, Romola."
"Oh, God!
I know, I know!
But what is there left in my life?
Why, what is there left in yours?
Perhaps you are the best operator on the whole Pacific Ocean; you've had that reputation now--how long--five years?
But it is aimless!
Where are you drifting?
What will become of you as the years pass?
You must be nearly thirty now, Peter.
I?
I am younger, but I have suffered more.
The only happiness I have known has been with you."
Peggy's voice became petulant.
"Peter, is that cork _awfully_ obstinate?"
"In a minute," he said absently.
"Do you remember those wonderful days and evenings we spent together on the Java Sea, on the old _Persian Gulf_?
Do you remember those evenings, Peter, under the moon and the Southern Cross?"
"I remember a great deal of treachery!"
"But there is to be no more treachery," she said passionately.
"Think, Peter, think!
You are penniless--I have only a little money; it will not last long.
What follows?
Do you know what happens to white women when they are stranded, penniless, friendless, in this country?"
She shivered.
"And it would be such a simple thing to do---to go with me--to him.
We would be together forever then--you and I!
Tibet!
The Punjab!
The merchant's trail into Bengal!
You and I with our caravan--in the blue foot-hills!"
"I'm sorry," confessed Peter sadly.
Romola hung her head with a bitter sigh.
Peggy pitched her voice: "Smash the neck, Peter; I don't mind a little broken glass!"
Romola was pushing two silver cups along the floor to him.
He spilled an amount of the sparkling golden liquid on the carpet, where it formed a dark, round stain.
With slightly unsteady hands he conveyed the cups across the room, and Peggy, without another word, following a rather vexed: "Thank you, m'lord," emptied the cup in a single swallow.
She licked her lips daintily, and her eyes were sparkling.
As Peter moved into the seat beside her, he saw the curtain over the doorway slowly drawn back by an unseen hand.
He looked smilingly toward Romola, and her eyes were fixed on the moving curtain, her face rigid in surprise and concern.
The thing seemed to puzzle her.
White metal flashed coldly.
A lean hand and arm appeared, and a short, fat knife, the haft sparkling with drops that resembled blood, was projected into the room, point down, quivering, in the wood, not five feet from Romola's lacquered bench!
CHAPTER V

"Is this a part----" began Peter.
"No, it is not."
Romola's face seemed thin with her growing anxiety.
Obviously the tossed knife was not a part of the evening's performance.
"A part of what?"
Peggy was inquiring.
"Oh, another joke of the Mongolian smugglers," he explained.
There was a sudden and astounding explosion in the midst of them.
The flame of a revolver bathed the whole room in reddish-yellow for an instant.
Smoke was rising, the pungent, pale-blue, nitrous smoke of so-called smokeless powder.
Anthony Andover had arisen, had delivered his shot at the waving curtain.
Peter gave a grunt of disapproval.
"Why did you do that----"

"Look!"
The candle directly above the curtains had flickered out; in fact, on closer examination Peter discovered that the candle had been split in crude halves, one of the white fragments lying on the rug not far from the incense burner.
This proved one point conclusively.
Anthony Andover had put real bullets, not blank cartridges, into the six chambers of his revolver.
He had reseated himself calmly beside Helen, who was staring at him with eyes like pools.
Peggy found her voice first.
"Gracious!
Why did you do that?
It was only in fun--that dagger, I mean.
Why, you might have killed somebody!"
Anthony shrugged his shoulders.
"I'm not so sure about that."
"This is really a most dangerous spot," added the Princess Meng Da Tlang in a mysterious voice.
But she was looking at Peter with deliberate meaning.
He accepted what he supposed was intended to be a cue, crossed to the far side of the room, and approached the curtains prudently.
He drew the nearest one back inch by inch until the wall of the corridor was given back to them blankly.
So far it was quite empty.
Dropping his hand leisurely into his coat-pocket, he sauntered into the hall.
As he dropped the curtains behind him, glancing swiftly up and down the apparently deserted hallway, he heard the familiar sound again of a gently closed door.
The sound seemed to originate from the direction of the street.
He looked about for the old watchman, and he nearly stumbled over him in the half-darkness as he approached.
Peter struck a match, and a gasp of horror came from his lips.
The man was dead--stabbed!
Was this killing a part of an elaborate plan?
He would not have permitted himself to walk with such apparent innocence into a snare if he had not relied upon the word of that band.
His experience had been that their code was a peculiar one whose foundation was the word of honor.
For the first time that evening he began to regret a little his arrogance in defying the request of their messenger to report his intentions immediately upon landing to the men in the place on Jen Kee Road.
He dragged the body into the darkest corner, where he covered it with a mat.
Laboring above his keen anxiety regarding the intention of the band was an eagerness to keep away from the two girls the sense of death, of danger, which seemed to pervade this house.
A way would have to be found to break through the line outside; perhaps they would be compelled to wait for daylight.
Again sliding the bolt which had been pushed back by the last trespasser, Peter slowly paced the length of the hall in the meditation of active and acute worry.
He was still undecided when he pulled back the rug which cloaked the entrance into the large room.
The room was in total darkness!
CHAPTER VI

An eye, red like the play of fire about a distant volcano crater, glowed a number of paces in front of him.
But not a candle, of the dozens that had been burning when he last went out of this room, was now lighted.
The scarlet glow he took to be the illumination under the altar of Buddha.
He heard a long sigh, a vague murmur of voices.
"Light the candles," he ordered angrily.
"What is the matter?"
This was Anthony's voice; it sounded very drowsy.
A tiny flame appeared as if suspended by an unseen cord and moved to the candle rail.
One wick glowed; another; then another.
"Moore--Moore----"  This was again the sleepy voice of Anthony.
A garish, gray figure arose and stumbled into the candle-light.
It was Anthony.
His eyes were half shut.
He seemed desperately sleepy, and gibbering as if in a dream.
Peter turned savagely upon the girl.
She seemed to cower away from him, half lifting her hands as though in fear that he would strike her.
"Romola!
Damn you----"

"Peter, I--I----"  Her faint voice trickled off into a sigh of anguish.
"Drugs?"
he demanded.
She shook her head anxiously.
"No, no.
I--I----"

"What have you done to these people?
What have you----"

She lifted up her head imperiously.
"You are forgetting----" she began.
He had the fingers of her left hand between his, crushing them.
She dropped her head.
Her fine lips were quivering.
"What am I forgetting?"
Anthony had grasped his elbow.
"It's not right, Moore; not right to talk to the princess like this.
She's really noble.
She's fine!"
"You're drunk, Anthony!"
"No, no, no," he babbled.
"Sleepy; that's all.
Oh, that wine!
Perfectly fine!
Makes you feel like climbing a moonbeam!"
"So it appears.
Where are the girls?"
"Over here.
Say--say, Moore, when does the fight start?
I--I'm just itching to get at somebody!"
"You'll have your chance in a moment.
And it isn't in fun.
Understand?"
"Of course I understand!
Isn't my gun loaded with bullets?
Are we in a trap?"
"We are!
And according to my calculations there's exactly one way out.
I think you and the girls will have no difficulty in breaking through.
Make a dash for it.
Run for all you're worth!"
"Hold on there," remonstrated Anthony, as his eyes lost a trifle of their sleepy look.
"What's to become of you?
Going to make a break for it, too?"
Peter shook his head.
"It's me they're after.
I can look out for myself, Anthony; this business isn't quite a novelty in my line.
You must get out--and get quick!"
"And leave you behind?
Not Anthony!
I stick!"
Anthony was flashing a length of highly polished gunmetal in his fist.
Romola with a trembling hand was applying a taper to the other candles.
Peter, observing that the twins were, to all appearances, sound asleep, approached her.
She paused in her work, holding the taper above her head, so that its gaunt rays flickered on his face.
"Because you loved me so?"
Her shoulders drooped, and her head rolled backward slightly, as though she were very tired.
She nipped her lower lip between pearl-white teeth.
"Because I love you so?"
she repeated dully.
"In some respects," he said bitterly, "you are like a certain snake in India.
You can't lock those damned snakes up!
They can always find a tiny hole, a slit in the cage, and--out they slip!"
"Ah, Peter----"  Romola dropped the taper to the bronze altar, where it flickered a moment and went out.
She fondled his reluctant hand between cold fingers.
Her face became utterly miserable, and there were sparkling tears in her eyes.
"My heart is your heart.
I have given my love to you.
I would give my life for you!"
He drew away from her slowly, turning his head to avoid the anguish in her eyes.
He went on briskly: "If my death is arranged for to-night----"

He stopped to watch her.
She was fumbling at her waist.
A little silver of light appeared.
The thing was a slim stiletto.
Her teeth were clicking as she extended the handle toward him.
Their eyes met.
In hers was shining a brute command.
In his slowly came shock, amazement.
She placed her fingers slowly over her heart; her hand slipped down and fell again at her side.
"There!"
she murmured.
"Is--is my end so close?"
he whispered.
She nodded slowly.
"You are in great danger.
This may be your final opportunity.
See?
I am offering no resistance.
Why--why do you hesitate?"
With the tiny blade lying like a flame of pure silver across the palm of his hand, Peter experienced a moment troubled and exceedingly awkward.
That threat, perhaps, was hardly more than the spilling out of bitterness which she had created in him.
In silence he handed the thing back to her almost furtively; and she accepted it without removing her shining gaze from his.
Somehow she seemed to have come out victorious in a conflict that had had nothing to do with knives, with broken promises.
And with the restoration of the dagger the spell seemed to be swept aside.
Turning abruptly, with a slight straightening of his shoulders, he walked away from her.
Anthony was like a guardian angel, a statue gravely symbolic of protection, standing over the golden heads, with the revolver dangling from his hand and shooting out metallic gleams.
Their eyes were tightly closed; the twins were sleeping as if drugged.
They heard a low, hushed scream.
"Peter--_ni kan_!"
Peter turned quickly, searching both entrances.
At first he was conscious of no intrusion.
Then a yellow face, long, narrow, with a stub of purple-black hair protruding behind, and which for a moment he took to be a part of the curtain, slowly withdrew, arising upward--vanishing!
The phantom was not unlike the wisps of yellow smoke from a green-wood fire, despatched by a lazy dawn wind.
The face of Jen, the deck steward!
CHAPTER VII

Apparently Anthony had not observed this specter.
Peter seized his arm, the left one.
"We must start.
Wake them up."
Anthony shook a nervous negative.
"I've tried.
That wine!"
"_Arracka_.
Comes from Java.
Tastes like May wine, and is stronger than cognac."
He was tilting Peggy's chin, shaking her head.
No response.
He tried the same experiment with Helen, and begot identical results.
Romola Borria had vanished.
Peter stepped out first, supporting his limp freight with his left arm, and in his right brandishing a revolver.
He hoped it wouldn't be necessary and he was sure that underneath the splendid varnish of Anthony's fine bravado larked the belief that this entire evening was nothing more than an exciting romantic game.
In the pinch, would Anthony react after the fashion of heroes-to-the-manner-born, or would the sight and smell of blood, if it Was written that blood be shed, unnerve him, make him out to be what he was at heart, the secretary of a prosperous and peaceful plow company?
On his part, Anthony was still babbling incoherently but earnestly, impressing upon Peter the undeniable virtues of the golden wine.
He was not prepared, although the nickeled revolver still flashed in his unoccupied hand, for the tumultuous event which was being shaped for the two of them around the corner.
They did not attain the outer door.
Out of the drab recesses leaped dusky shadows.
There seemed to be a large number of jostling men; perhaps only three or four were at hand by actual count; the insufficient lighting and their shocking and determined appearance lent them plurality.
A sparkling flame roared from the hand of the foremost of these before Peter could bring his hand out of his pocket.
Anthony's nickeled revolver went off twice, from his hip, and the giant faltered, going back shapelessly among the shadows from which he had emerged.
Peter's original scheme to hack a way through the line underwent hasty revision.
Escape would have to be made by different channels, and his only choice was the device nearest at hand.
It was a long chance, an aimless one, perhaps, fraught with new, dangers and complications.
But he did not hesitate.
Beating off a hand that pawed for his shoulder, he flung open the door which faced the dwelling's entrance, and pushed the reluctant Anthony inside.
Peter locked the door, throwing a bench across it for temporary barricade, then lit candles, wondering if any one would have had enough foresight to disconnect the aerial wires.
He dropped his burden to the divan against the side wall, and examined Anthony, who had gone very pale.
He was shaking, and his gray eyes seemed to have climbed half way out of his head.
He propped Peggy tenderly beside her sister, and laid an unsteady hand upon Peter's shoulder.
He seemed to be fighting down a very definite fear.
Peter was backing toward the apparatus.
"Watch the door.
If any one tries to break in, shoot straight at the sound!
You're not hurt, are you?
Did that fellow get you?"
Anthony shivered all over.
"Christ!"
he muttered.
His lips were white.
"That man!
I shot him!
He's dead!
Dead!"
"And we are still alive," said Peter quietly.
He sat down at the instrument table, fixed silvery disks to his ears, twanged the detector wire and made a few quick alterations in connections.
Fortunately his inspection of the equipment earlier in the day had given him a grasp of its arrangement.
In an instant he had the tuner adjusted, was listening, with those keen ears of his focussed for the ethereal voices which might be abroad at this untimely hour.
Distant splashes of heat lightning occurred faintly, like the quivering of sensitive metal.
Casting a glance over his shoulder, to make sure that Anthony was following instructions, he rearranged levers and lowered the heavy switch which drew upon the storage batteries underneath the table.
He tapped the large brass key experimentally.
A hissing blue spark lighted up the walls and his features in a ghostly glow.
Tightening the vibrator at the terminus of the rubber-covered coil, he spelled out an inquiry in the International Code.
Any station within hearing would answer that call.
He wondered if the Shanghai station was closed up for the night, or if by any chance his assistant on the _King of Asia_ would be on the job.
Peter waited for several anxious moments, with no sound in the telephones other than the faint spattering of the lightning down the coast.
Then his inquiry was given a response, startlingly harsh and close.
The station might have been across the street, the signals were beating in his ears so loudly.
The operator was having some difficulty adjusting his spark; it was rough, ragged, like the drumming of hailstones on a metal roof.
A series of test letters followed, exasperatingly slow.
"V--V--V--V----  What station is that?
This is the _Madrusa_."
Peter hesitated, although interference was unlikely.
He felt tremendously relieved.
The _Madrusa's_ rough spark meant more to him than help close by.
He knew the _Madrusa_ well; a gray, swift gunboat, lying close to the water, whose purpose was to sweep the lower Whang-poo and Yangtze clear of pirates.
She could spit streams of bullets for hours without let-up.
And the knowledge of her closeness to this death-trap keyed him up, not entirely because she was manned by British sailors who would rather fight than eat.
His hand reached out for the key.
"Who is on watch?
This is Peter Moore.
That you, Johnny Driggs?"
If the man at the _Madrusa's_ key did happen to be Jonathan Driggs, he could afford to breathe more easily.
Driggs was another man who had found in China the irresistible attraction, and who for some years had sat behind the radio machines of many ships that plied these yellow waters.
"Yes!
Yes!
Yes!"
roared the _Madrusa's_ spark.
"Where are you?
What are you doing up at this time of night playing with a baby coil?"
For the next three minutes the spitting blue spark flared and jumped as Peter spelled out his plight.
He sketched their predicament by abbreviated code, and he impressed upon his friend the necessity for utter secrecy, hoping that the night had no other ears.
"Damn it!"
replied the quick fingers of the gunboat's operator.
"Damn it!
But I can't get shore leave!
Impossible--you can guess why!
Our gunnery officer, Lieutenant Milton Raynard, is jumping to go!
He'll fetch you five or six sailors.
He knows the lay of the land, and I've sketched him a map of the locality from your description.
Cinch!
They'll be off at once, soon as they can get the engine started in the launch.
Don't give up the ship, old boy!
Don't----"

Peter dropped the receiver, walked over to the divan and endeavored to awaken the girls, slapping their hands, shaking them.
They did not appear to be drugged.
Evidently they had underestimated the power of the smooth, yellow _arracka_.
Faint color glowed in their cheeks, and under the treatment Peggy slowly opened one very sleepy brown eye.
It drooped again.
She muttered something that was not intelligible.
It had something to do with a princess, and even that word was indistinct.
Anthony lifted a cautioning hand.
"Some one's outside," he whispered.
Slowly, as they watched it, the knob described a single revolution.
Anthony lifted his revolver.
"Who is there?"
"Let me in!"
It was Romola Borria.
"Open the door," said Peter quietly, stepping aside.
Anthony removed the bench, twisted the key.
"You must not go with them," Romola whispered.
"Shut the door--put the bench back," directed Peter.
He followed Romola across the room.
Evidently she had read the spark.
"Let these people go--yes!
But you remain.
You will--or won't you?"
Peter looked skeptical.
"Why should I?
I've decided that life is pretty sweet, after all!
Why haven't Jen and his gang broken in here?
Why is he waiting?
Have you told him help is coming?"
She shrugged impatiently.
"I have not seen Jen.
I have talked with no one."
"Then you will stay in this room until we leave?"
"But why did you send for them?
It was foolish!
How will you explain?"
"They are friends.
Such men ask no questions."
"But there was no need!"
She made a despairing gesture with her hands.
"Your friends could have gone safely.
Jen has no interest in--_them_!"
Peter nodded indifferently.
"But my ship sails."
"Very good.
But you must not leave this house until sunrise."
"When the sailors come from the _Madrusa_ I shall walk out of here----"

"And into the arms of death, Peter!"
Peter lighted a cigarette and puffed thoughtfully in silence.
Romola's gaze was upon his lips, as though the next words he would utter meant to her the difference between life and death.
And what he might have said was forestalled by a heavy battering at the outer door.
These deep vibrations seemed on the sudden to stir Peggy out of her sleep.
She sat upright, digging fists into tired eyes.
"Gracious!
Where's everybody?"
The hammering ceased, and a high-pitched crash followed an instant of hush.
"The men from the _Madrusa_!"
cried Anthony.
He dragged the bench away; flung the door open with a grand gesture.
And into the room strode a blandly smiling Chinese, magnificent in gold and blue and red.
He was flanked by three large and watchful coolies, armed with clubs.
"Mr. Moore; I am the man from the Jen Kee Road place!"
He radiated a splendid calm.
Peggy cowered against her sister, with a look of sleepy mystification, while Anthony, glancing to Peter for command, was fingering his revolver in anxious indecision.
Already one of the coolies was sidling toward him.
"You were a deck coolie this morning," Peter replied.
The Chinese took a step toward him.
Peter felt Romola cringe at his side.
He wondered at this.
"Shall we wait until sunrise, or----"

A sudden babble of men's voices on the other side of the partition checked the Chinese, while a look of misunderstanding came over his bland countenance.
"Moore!
Moore!
Where are you?"
These were the rich tones of a man accustomed to command.
And instantly the small room seemed to be overflowing with the white and blue of uniforms.
Peggy stood straight up with a wondering gasp.
Confronting her was a tall and handsome youth with the gold-and-black epaulets of his majesty's service at the shoulder-straps of his splendid white uniform.
A cutlass in a nickeled case hung from a polished leather belt, and depending from it also was an empty leather holster.
Gripped threateningly in his right hand was a blue revolver.
The shrill voice of the man from the Jen Kee Road place rose sharply above the momentary tumult.
In this quick confusion a pale, obnoxious odor, like opium fresh from the poppy, yet with the savor of almonds, flooded Peter's throat.
He was vaguely aware of a fumbling in his coat-pocket.
Explosions sounded as from afar and a vast redness settled down and encompassed the world.
The interval of dark was surprisingly short-lived.
Swimming in and out of his distorted vision was a face.
He was conscious for a while of no other impression.
The face reeled, came closer--danced away from him!
Bright eyes sparkled, leaped, and hung motionless.
He inhaled a new perfume, deliciously like flowers in a summer meadow.
It injected fresh life into him.
His hands found power, and he clutched at a soft wrist.
The owner of this face was talking eagerly.
"We are alone--alone!"
With great effort he found he could incline his head a little.
He was struggling.
Hot vapors clogged his brain.
Where were the girls, Anthony, the young lieutenant from the _Madrusa_?
"Where are they?"
"Safe."
He could recognize the features now distinctly; yet they stirred up in him no longer a feeling of repugnance, but a vague longing.
"Romola!"
"Yes, Peter.
You are feeling stronger?"
"What am I doing here?
What is this place?"
"We are in the cellar."
It was very dim, with an odor of moldy dampness.
The rock foundation, the walls, and floor were perspiring whitely.
Peter's brain became clogged again.
The voice came to him softly but quite distinctly, with each word clear and emphatic:

"He is waiting outside.
They will not dare come into my house again!"
"I am dizzy.
Who will not dare?
Who is outside?"
he demanded feebly.
"The man from the Jen Kee Road place.
He is waiting outside that window.
No, No!
He cannot see.
It is covered with silk."
Peter fell back against the arm.
"What does he want?"
"Your answer.
I told him to wait.
I promised him; I will hold the candle to the window."
"But I am dizzy," he groaned.
"I do not understand."
"Once--means 'yes.'
Twice--means 'no.'"
He delivered every ounce of his mental energy against the drug in his brain; it was like struggling against the tide.
"Once--means 'yes?'
Twice--means 'no?'"
The meaning suddenly became clear to him.
"The up-river trip?"
She nodded slowly, anxiously.
"And twice--means death, also, Peter!"
He tried to drag himself erect, tried to twist his head, and he sank back with a bitter groan.
"You drugged me!"
"There was no other way.
I could not let you go into the night--into death!"
A bitter smile came to his white lips.
"I am quite powerless?"
"I--I am afraid you are, Peter."
"If I decide yes--or if I decide no--how can I defend myself?"
"You are quite helpless," she confessed in a whisper.
"No.
You cannot defend yourself."
Her expression showed an inward struggle.
"You are in my hands.
You are in my arms!
Yes!
What have you to say?"
The smile of bitterness came and flickered again over his pale lips.
He tried to throw back his head, but the redness was settling down upon him again.
"What shall I say?"
he muttered.
"I say--two lights!
I say--no!
_No_!"
The fingers at his neck were icy.
Gently he was lowered to the pavement.
Romola had taken the candle down from the rafter, and she went swiftly to the tiny window.
She raised her hand, once, then pinched out the flame between her fingers.
CHAPTER VIII

Foggy consciousness.
A roaring like that of the ocean on a rockbound coast.
He seemed to be floating in a medium of ice.
Once his dragging arm scraped a wet, slippery timber.
The journey seemed to be taking him down--down--into the earth, and slowly he began to rise.
Gradually he became aware of innumerable pinpoints of light in a shield of purple darkness.
These might have been stars, or the lights of a great city.
Next he heard the low gurgle of water, as of a stream splashing through wilderness.
He felt very faint, but the vapor clouds in his brain were beginning to clear away.
Next he was badly shaken up, yet he was conscious of no pain.
Remorseful eyes stared into his from the face of a candle-white spectre, and in the background a tall, half-naked giant swayed from side to side in a pink glow.
Where, then, were Jen and his Chinese?
He vaguely sensed the dawn; it came to him as an old experience, a sort of groping memory out of a gloriously romantic past.
And the swaying giant he decided in a moment of rare clarity to be a sampan coolie.
The pink glow increased, became pale yellow, while a deep blueness figured in it.
A swollen sun came and paved a bloody path across a lake of roiled brown, and the water hissed with a white foam.
His jaws were aching; a queer emptiness in his chest caused him long and perplexing speculation.
There were shouting voices aloft, and a gleaming black wall slowly took form above him.
He made out the pointed heads of rivets.
"Are you awake?"
The voice, low and sibilant, emerged from the candle-white face.
He had been dreaming, too, during this fantastic journey.
Once he had plainly distinguished a field of waving corn.
He seemed to be back in California.
"Eileen," he murmured, surprised at the feebleness of his voice.
"No, no," came the reply.
"It is Romola.
I--I am leaving you!"
"Ah!
Where is Jen?"
Bellowing inquiry came down to them: "Who is that?
What do you want?"
The girl called back: "The wireless operator.
He is sick.
Drop the ladder.
Send down some one to carry him."
The sampan was swinging about, and the coolie was paddling like mad.
"River boat--for Ching-Fu?"
Peter gasped.
"No.
The _King of Asia_.
Peter--can you understand?
I am leaving you!
This is good-by!
I--I--we will never see each other again.
I--I couldn't turn you over to that man!"
"But the candle----"  Peter was miserably confused.
"You raised it--once!
I said no!"
Romola seemed to become rather hysterical.
"I tricked them, Peter!
Oh, won't you understand?
I do love you, Peter!
I couldn't give you to them!"
"No," he muttered; "I don't understand.
I--I'm dizzy."
The voice was bellowing again.
"Is that Peter Moore?
What's happened to him?"
"He's sick--sick!
Send down a watchman.
Hurry!
This tide is carrying us away!"
Something bounded into the sampan.
A brown coil was flattened against the gleaming black wall.
But Peter could not understand.
He was back again in the cellar under Romola's house, mumbling insanely about a candle-light.
Perhaps he dreamed that hot lips were pressed lingeringly against his own.
Over and over he heard a fading voice; it was saying: "Good-by!--_Ch'ing_!"
The glaring sun was in his face.
He shut his eyes.
The lips seemed to be torn from his in a cry of anguish.
Strong arms encircled his waist, and he was no longer aware of the motion of the sampan.
It was late in the day when Peter opened his eyes again, closed them, and stared at the mattress and springs of a bunk over his head.
He was lying on his back in his stateroom.
Smoky afternoon sunlight, reflected from a shimmering surface, sparkled and bubbled against the white enameled wall.
His head was aching a little, and there were numerous jumping pains in various parts of his body.
He had been dreaming.
All of these things that had come and gone with the fading of the night were figments of a slumbering brain.
The last portion of the dream which he could visualize distinctly was his act of arising from a wireless machine in a house that had gone mad, to confront a tall Chinese who wore a ridiculously stubby pigtail, like that of Jen, the deck-steward.
He sat up, governed by a sudden worry.
Where were the Whipple girls and Anthony?
What had become of that dashing British lieutenant, Milton Raynard?
Peter arose hastily from bed, and examined a pale and gaunt countenance in the small mirror above the wash-stand.
Dark lines had come under his eyes, and the deep-blue pupils seemed to kindle with a peculiar brilliancy.
He had seen that look in other eyes, and another fragment of the dream came back to him.
He licked his dry lips, tasting a flavor not unlike that of opium fresh from the poppy, and of almonds.
He filled the wash-basin with cold water, took a long breath, and immersed his face for a half minute.
Gasping, he came out of it with pink starting into his cheeks, and his mental faculties somewhat better organized.
When he emerged from his stateroom, attired in a fresh white uniform, with his gold-and-white cap set at a jaunty angle on his head, he looked like a different man.
His skin was glowing, and a youthful heart was sending recuperative tingles all over his body.
Peter took a turn about the promenade deck in search of Anthony, and was hailed by his room-boy, who had some mail for him.
He dropped these missives absently into his pocket, made further inquiries, and learned that Anthony and the Misses Whipple had come to the steamer shortly before sunrise in the launch belonging to the river gunboat _Madrusa_.
Then he knocked at Anthony's door.
A tired snore, emanating from the transom, broke into a sleepy complaint.
The door opened; Anthony stared at him as if in the presence of a ghost.
"Great Scott!
I thought you were dead!"
He rubbed his eyes to accelerate wakefulness.
Peter chuckled.
"What happened?
Both girls safe?"
"How did you get here alive?"
"I came down by sampan.
The princess detained me."
Anthony shivered.
"We thought you were with us.
Somebody put out all the lights!"
He shivered again.
"Raynard wanted to go back--so did I.
We didn't dare!
The girls, you know."
He dropped his head, as if ashamed.
"How is Peggy?"
Anthony frowned, hesitated.
"Peter, she--she thinks you're a quitter!
She thinks you ran away at the big moment!"
Peter grinned.
"That can be cleared up.
Did you enjoy--the game?
Did you succeed?
That's all I'm worrying about."
Anthony looked at him suspiciously.
"That was not a put-up job.
Why--I shot a man!"
He became anxious.
"Will there be a row?"
"Not a bit--if you keep your mouth shut."
"Oh, I'll do that!
But that dead Chink!
Ugh!"
"Forget him," advised Peter cheerfully.
"I still don't know what Peggy had to say."
"What do you mean?"
Anthony gave him a blank stare.
"Does she think----"

A light of understanding came into Anthony's clear gray eyes.
"Oh, I made a little mistake," he confessed weakly.
"It--it isn't Peggy; it's Helen!
We're engaged!
You see, Helen is such a--a quiet and reserved sort of girl.
Just my kind!
Peggy--well, you know, I decided she was a little too--too wild!"
A long, low gray launch was chugging alongside when Peter made his way back to the promenade-deck.
At the upper extremity of the companion-ladder which reached down to the river's surface was standing a slim and youthful figure in blue, with wisps of golden hair flying about in the soft spring breeze.
She leaned anxiously and expectantly over the rail as a tall and commanding young man in the white uniform of his majesty's naval service climbed up eagerly toward her.
The young officer leaped gracefully over the rail, seized both hands of the girl, and his eyes were shining.
Peter's deep-blue eyes unaccountably took on an expression of moist sadness; yet he was grinning.
He climbed up to the boat-deck, unlocked the wireless room, and for the first time recalled the mail in his hip-pocket.
Leisurely he scanned the post-cards first, highly colored ones, which had been forwarded from the San Francisco Marconi office, emanating from friends scattered in many parts of the world.
One was from Alaska; another from Calcutta, India, from that splendid fellow, Captain Bobbie MacLaurin.
He opened the letter, and his eyes fell upon familiar handwriting.
He suddenly felt shocked; the sentences began swimming.
The letter was from Eileen, dated Nanking.
Words stood out whimsically, like thoughts assailing a tired brain, clamoring for recognition.
... You are the stubbornest man!
...  Do you imagine I ever cared for that puppy?
Why, Peter--why didn't you wait?
I'd have scratched his eyes out!
Of course, he kissed me!
But the point is, my dear, I didn't realize until it was all over....
I suppose I should have jumped into the ocean when you left me so angrily.
But I didn't.
I came to China on the _Empress of Japan_.
I am now at the Bridge Hotel, in Nanking, on my way to Ching-Fu, where you may find me.
Just to show you that I can have adventures, too!
"Great guns!"
said Peter.
He wondered if he could catch the Nanking express; there was a Chinese steamer leaving Nanking for up-river to-morrow noon.
There was a humble voice at his elbow.
A deck-boy was grinning dreamily at him; a queer flicker darted across his green eyes, vanished.
"Jen!"
exclaimed Peter, glimpsing an abbreviated pigtail.
"Aie!"
said the deck-boy.
"The man from the Jen Kee Road place!"
The deck-steward seemed puzzled.
"My no savvy," he said.
His look became dreamy again, reminiscent.
"But you can speak English as well as 'pidgin,'" declared Peter, frowning.
"You did last night!"
"My savvy 'pidgin,'" said Jen brightly.
"China allatime funny place!
China no can savvy allatime funny people!
Funny!"
"What's that?"
snapped Peter.
He was baffled and angry.
Had Jen played the leading part in the mysterious and grim comedy of last night, or was he only a work coolie, a deck-steward, harmless, innocuous, babbling happily in his limited knowledge of a strange language?
The deck-boy was pointing up-river with a long, yellow finger.
Peter stared.
And he saw nothing, nothing but a great red sun with its lower half enveloped in a glowing pool of green and red smoke into which arose the black spars of ships from all over the world.
CHAPTER IX

The sky was clearing.
Rain had ceased dripping from the bulging black clouds, and a slender rod of golden sunlight pierced through and marked a path upon the red bricks of the inn courtyard.
Hazy in the green-and-purple distance could be glimpsed the yellow withers of the western range.
Cooking smells, the sour odor of fish-and-rice chow, were wafted from the braziers of village housewives.
Peter loafed against a spruce post, and moodily contemplated the stamping animals in the enclosure.
His hat was in his hand, and the mountain breeze assailed his blond hair, which, rumpled and curly, gave him something of the appearance of a satyr at ease.
He was worried.
He had, an hour before, come to Ching-Fu from the boat; and Eileen had left Ching-Fu for a trip to Kialang-Hien, a village of the third order some fifty _li_ distant, the morning before.
Whether to follow or wait was the question.
Somewhere afield a valiant bronze gong called infidels to the feet of an insufferable clay god.
Peter's flow of thought was interrupted.
Unnoticed a girl--at first glance the virtuous daughter of a mandarin--was approaching.
Her abruptness and her appearance caught him so completely off guard that he held his breath and stared at her rather wildly.
And she in turn, as if fascinated, stared back as wildly at him.
His first guess was inaccurate.
She was no mandarin's daughter, this one.
She was young and exquisitely slim, with wisdom and sadness written upon her colorless face, and he was informed by a single glance at her exploring bright eyes and the straightness of her fine black brows, that she was half-breed, Eurasian.
Those shining eyes, not unlike twin jade beads, were sparkling.
Her lips were thin and as red as betel.
Her garb was satin, bright with gold filigree and flashing gems; and her dainty feet were disfigured rather than adorned by bright-red sandals.
Her feet, however, were not the "feet of the lily," for the lithe grace of her stride was ample proof that they had not been bound.
The dying sun outlined through the folds of her bizarre garment ankles straight, slender, and probably naked.
Rosy color moved swiftly into her satiny complexion while, with a pretty, inquisitive frown, she scrutinized him; and then, with a flick of her black eyelashes, she ran toward the arched doorway, leaving Peter to ponder, and scratch his blond head, and demand amazing explanations of himself.
It was a dominating trait in Peter never to lose time securing information that was interesting to him; but the old proprietor, with his wise and varnished smile, could vouchsafe very little of consequence.
The young woman, he admitted, was named Naradia.
She was accompanied by her husband, a young Chinese of high birth, who manifested no more signs of activity to an outward world than a baffling secretness.
The two of them had arrived from down-river on a sailing junk the week before.
The husband's name was Meng, he believed, and since he had come, the old man declared, many strange and warlike faces had mysteriously appeared in Ching-Fu.
Such visitors were not uncommon in the villages which bordered the merchants' trail, from the Yangtze to the Irriwaddi, but Peter's interest was kindled.
As he made off in the direction of the most reliable village mule-seller, he decided that the secretive young bridegroom, Meng, might be worth cultivating.
From a soft-tongued and hardened swindler Peter procured a mule, and arranged to have the animal in the caravansary at daybreak.
It was his intention to start for Kialang in search of Eileen with the first tender glow of dawn.
After dining he waited in the compound for a glimpse of the mysterious Meng, or his ravishing bride, Naradia.
Unsuccessful, he returned to his room.
His Chinese valet was brewing jasmin-tea when Peter opened and shut the bedroom door.
His pajamas were neatly laid out upon his couch, and the rugs were neatly furled back.
He detected the acrid and pleasing odor of incense as he crossed the room.
The boy glanced up meekly from the charcoal brazier.
"Wanchee tea now?"
"Yes."
Peter slipped out of his tunic.
The boy dropped on his knees to unlace Peter's boots.
Peter lighted a cigarette, stretched himself out upon the rugs, and the boy brought him a steaming cup.
"Wake me--daylight--sure," cautioned Peter, lifting the cup.
"_Tsao_," murmured the boy.
When the boy was gone Peter removed the automatic from his raincoat pocket.
The metal glittered pleasantly in the yellow light from the suspended lamp.
The cup of tea had served to waken him.
He released the cartridge clip from the automatic's handle and stared thoughtfully at the glowing lead balls.
He became conscious of a sound, alien and untimely.
The door was rattling softly.
He studied it with interest; the wooden handle was turning slowly, first to the right, then to the left.
The phenomenon puzzled him.
His eyes were sparkling a little as he quietly restored the clip of cartridges.
Creeping to the hinged side of the door, he waited, breathing silently.
With a squeak the door swung in quickly.
A lean, yellow hand, gripping a nickel-plated pistol, was thrust inside.
Peter shot three times directly through the wood panel.
The white pistol thudded to the planks, while the yellow hand seemed to be jerked backward by an electric force.
Soft footsteps retreated.
Peter jerked open the door and stepped out.
The corridor was empty.
Some few feet toward the stairway an oiled wick, jutting from a tiny bronze cup which was bracketed to a scantling, burned and sputtered.
Under the door across the way a thin streak of yellow light indicated that the mysterious young Chinese and his bride had not yet retired.
As Peter was examining the floor for blood stains the door budged inward sufficiently to panel the terrified face of the Eurasian girl he had seen earlier in the evening.
At sight of him she shut the door hastily.
Perplexed, he went to the stairway and peered into the stark blankness which swam up to the third step below him.
He was at a loss to account for the air of serenity which still dwelt in the inn.
Surely the three revolver shots had been overheard; yet the place was as silent as the grave, and quite as ominous.
Where were the servants, the caravan boys, the muleteers, the traders and merchants?
He dismissed as absurd the theory that the walls of his room were stout enough to muffle the short-barreled blasts.
An isolated sound, a swish of discreet garments, a prudent grating sound, as of a window lifted or a chair moved, then came to him, and unquestionably it came from his own room.
Peter left the staircase to its gloomy shadows.
The room was unoccupied.
Basing his next action upon sound and tried experience, Peter put out the lamp and hazarded a glimpse out of the window.
A sharp, round moon was perched high in a star-studded heaven, fairly illuminating a muddy street and the low-thatched roofs of nearby dwellings.
A horse whinnied and stamped in the enclosure, and from a distance rose the moody growl of the rapids.
Irritated and nervous, Peter felt for the couch and sank down in the blackness, with the revolver dangling idly across one knee.
At that instant he was thrilled to the roots of his hair by a scream, strangely muffled.
Peter indulged in a shiver as he stole to the door on tiptoe, opened it quietly, and looked out.
There was terror in that scream; it was the outcry of a human in the clutch of real horror.
The door across the way was slightly ajar, letting out an orange effulgence which lighted the boards, the opposite wall, and the grimy ceiling.
Indistinctly he discerned a motionless clump, and, catching the white flicker of steel he sprang across, wrapping his fingers about a struggling wrist.
Immediately the orange light was broadened, then darkened by a tall figure, but Peter's back was turned.
An eager sigh, as if heartfelt relief, was given out by the second shadow.
The knife, under Peter's pressure, dropped to his feet, and, quite sure that the time was now past to ask polite questions, Peter brought down the butt of the revolver with a smart slap where the long black pigtail joined a fat little head.
With a throaty gurgle his victim joined the shadows of the floor.
A soft, white hand was laid upon Peter's right arm, and he found himself glaring into the blanched face of the girl Naradia.
Her small fingers hardened upon the flesh of his hand, and he was aware that she was staring imploringly across his shoulder.
Peter spun about and for the first time was aware of the presence of the indolent figure in the doorway.
The glow of a cigarette was at the man's lips, but the darkness prevented scrutiny.
The rapid procession of mysterious events had unnerved Peter.
The silent and indolent presence of the stranger in the doorway put the spark to his long-withheld indignation.
He lifted the revolver's nose menacingly.
The cigarette glowed a bright red, as if in amazement.
"You," he snapped, "whoever you are--pick this man up.
Carry him into my room.
And you," he added sharply to the girl, "follow him!"
The cigarette fell to the planks, and the tall man put his heel upon it.
The careless movement gave Peter his first glimpse of the man's profile.
The man smiled faintly.
He took the unconscious assailant of Naradia by the heels and dragged him into Peter's room.
CHAPTER X

A match hissed; the flame of the lamp rose up slowly.
With a flutter of skirts the girl followed, her head inclined, as though she was humiliated or greatly embarrassed.
She went to the couch and faced him, while an attempt at calmness and a determined fear struggled to control her expression.
Her attire was negligee, of pink Japanese silk, open at the throat, and revealing a neck and shoulders as white and smooth as bleached ivory.
Peter closed the door and shot the bolt.
The man who smiled so confidently had rolled the knife carrier with his face to the wall.
Then he crossed to the couch and took a stand beside the girl, seemingly at ease under Peter's sharp and thorough inspection.
As Peter examined the slender, colorless face he imagined for an instant that the man, also, was Eurasian.
But that impression he quickly realized was incorrect.
The man simply was of a high order of Chinese intelligence, with smooth, dusky skin, thin, stubborn lips, a straight forehead, and eyes which were dark, watchful and sad.
Yet these eyes seemed to twinkle now, shifting without a trace of fear from the unwavering gun-barrel in Peter's hand to the unwavering glint in Peter's blue eyes.
And there was something undeniably imperial in the young Oriental's bearing.
Perhaps this was caused by his attitude, or the Oriental richness of his garb.
He might have been an Asiatic prince, or a sheik fresh from the desert, or a maharaja, from a jungle throne.
A glittering cluster of gems--diamonds and rubies--hung from a fine gold chain which encircled his bronzed neck.
His tunic was of satin, the color of the tropical sea; his breeches were spotlessly white, and his slippers were Arabian, with up-curled toes.
"Well?"
asked the young Asiatic, when Peter's gaze finally descended to the scarlet slippers.
"I am waiting," said Peter, impatiently.
Black eyebrows went up inquiringly.
"I am a merchant--from Shanghai."
"What you are or who you are is of no importance," returned Peter in a voice of cordial doubt.
"Perhaps you've aroused my idle curiosity; at all events, I want you to tell me why you were late in coming to your wife's assistance."
"His life is more precious," she interceded, hastily.
The Oriental waved his hand, as if the answer were absurd.
"You anticipated me by three seconds," he replied.
"I was drowsing.
I thought I had dreamed the scream.
May I say--I am very grateful?"
Peter's expression was dubious, but he nodded at length as though partly satisfied.
"Perhaps you can tell me what became of the man who opened my door?"
The man's face was frankly bewildered.
"I am at a loss to account for any man entering your room--unless by mistake," he said with genuine concern.
"I think you are crediting me with an interest in an affair that I know nothing of.
Unless--unless----"  He hesitated and paused, searching Peter's eyes with a glance suddenly startled.
"Can it be possible----?"
he muttered.
"I judge by your accent that you are an American.
I have spent the past four years myself in America--at Harvard.
Somehow----"  He paused again, and smiled faintly.
Suddenly the smile departed, was displaced by the most murderous of grimaces.
He was looking beyond Peter.
His right hand flashed into his blue tunic.
And before Peter could turn or dodge, he sprang past him, colliding with an object which grunted and instantly cried out in agony.
Peter turned in time to see a thin knife plunge into the throat of a swarthy Chinese, whose face was round as the Mongolian moon, and as yellow.
The Chinese wiped his knife coolly on the fallen man's black jacket.
"Why, my good friend, should he attack you, unless----"  He paused again, and searched Peter's face with those keen brown eyes, no longer sad.
"Unless what?"
he asked, bluntly.
"This man is from Len Yang."
He heard the girl utter a sharp gasp, and a queer light was dawning in the other's face.
"Unless you are"--he hesitated--"unless you are the one man in the world I wish you might be."
He laughed.
"Are you--Peter Moore, known in some parts of China as--Peter the Brazen?"
Peter nodded slowly.
With a delighted cry the young Oriental sprang to him and seized his hand.
"Do you hear, Naradia?"
he exclaimed.
"This is _Peter Moore_!"
And Peter permitted his suspicions to drift, as he thought of the dead man on the floor, and of the reason why he died.
He was compelled to admit that the stranger had saved his life.
"We must talk this over," the young Chinese was muttering.
"Why, I could not have arranged it more suitably!"
He seemed to collect himself then.
"Before we talk, let us get rid of this man."
He picked up the dead coolie by the waist, lifted him easily to the window, and dropped him, as if he were a sack of rice, into the mud.
He whistled twice.
Immediately three shadows were given up by the caravansary.
These gathered up the dead man and vanished.
"They will dispose of him," said the stranger, helping himself to a cigarette.
He paused with the flaring match in his fingers and looked at Peter quizzically.
"My name is Kahn Meng.
And I am _not_ from Shanghai."
Peter nodded agreeably, although the explanation explained nothing.
"I have returned to China to attack and capture the city of Len Yang.
I came from there originally.
Exactly five years ago I galloped over the great drawbridge to study the classics in Peking.
Fortunately I met a man.
He was an American missionary.
He said to me: 'Kahn Meng, the classics are dead.
Betake yourself to America, where you will find the fountain of modern knowledge.'
Of course, the missionary was a Harvard man."
Peter frowned slightly.
"What you don't understand probably, Mr. Moore, is why I can leave Len Yang and return at will.
I can't.
I escaped from Len Yang at night.
I am returning with a thousand men at my back.
Those men have occupied this village.
My conscience forbids my confessing to you how many of the spies of Len Yang have been fed to the hungry river since my arrival.
"You understand, the monster of Len Yang, as I affectionately call him, must not know of my return.
Otherwise he would make me prisoner.
This fat-faced one slipped through the guard lines.
There may be others."
He grunted.
"They do not dare kill me.
For I----"  He threw up his handsome head proudly.
"For you----" encouraged Peter.
"Must hide my identity," finished Kahn Meng with a little laugh.
"But Naradia--they object to her.
They have attempted to kill her, so many times.
Naradia, how many?"
"A score of times," she said darkly.
"To-night they nearly succeeded.
I am not wanted.
I am a half-caste--a Chinese father, a poor French mother.
They desired him to marry of the----"

"Hush!"
cautioned her husband, for Naradia was almost hysterical and was willing to prattle on.
Kahn Meng smiled tenderly.
"Naradia," he continued, lowering his voice gently, "now that Peter Moore and I are at last together, will you excuse us?
You must be exhausted, my dear--after this unpleasant affair.
Will you retire?
Remember, little Chaya, in another week this terror will be at an end.
Mr. Moore and I will begin planning instantly."
Naradia laid her hands upon his and smiled sweetly.
"Good-night!"
she said, obediently.
"Good-night,"--she lifted her brows archly--"Peter the Brazen!
I do hope that you are not a dream!"
They watched the pink silk of her gown flit into the corridor, whereupon Kahn Meng took Peter's arm companionably and guided him to the window.
A keen, soft wind, tempered with the fragrance of ripening pepper trees, came in to them in delicate puffs.
A mysterious light twinkled distantly upon the river.
The moon was sinking into a void, and the night was becoming black.
Kahn Meng was extracting from his satin blouse a gold-and-black cigarette case.
Peter accepted one of the white cylinders and struck a match.
In the flare he found that Kahn Meng was studying him shrewdly, dispassionately.
"In the first place," began Kahn Meng, "let us settle the important matter of price.
I will promise you whatever you desire.
I want you."
He spat into the darkness.
"Why are you in Ching-Fu?
I believed you to be in America, but I could not find you.
What brings you here?
Surely you were not planning to enter Len Yang again alone?"
Peter shook his head.
"I came on another errand, which has nothing to do with Len Yang.
But"--he threw away the half consumed cigarette--"you have made a mistake, Kahn Meng.
The first matter to settle is the more important one of identity."
"Take me just as I am," pleaded Kahn Meng earnestly.
"We have one desire, I know, in common--to clean up that horrible city!
You have visited Len Yang.
You know the wretched condition of the miners--slaves, poor devils.
Perhaps you have seen them at nightfall coming from the shaft, dripping with the blood-red of the cinnabar, starving--blind!"
"I have seen all that," agreed Peter, grimly.
"Ah!
But are you acquainted with that man's methods?
Do you know that his corrupt influence has extended into every nation of Asia?
His organization is more perfect than any eastern government.
His system of espionage puts those of Japan and Germany to shame!
You must know!
You have encountered his underlings.
Oh, I have heard of the Romola Borria affair.
Your escape was masterly!
I believe you astounded him."
Kahn Meng paused and puffed long at his cigarette.
"Think, Kahn Meng, what might be accomplished," said Peter fervently, "if the power he wields, that tremendous human machine--hundreds and thousands of men--were devoted to the proper ends!
Think what could be done for China!"
Kahn Meng turned quickly.
His eyes seemed to shine above the ruby glow of his cigarette.
"I wanted you to say that!"
he exclaimed, enthusiastically.
"The thing has been in my mind for years--ever since I was a child!
We can do it!
We can!"
"Yet one thousand men cannot enter Len Yang.
It is a fortress."
"There is another way into Len Yang--by the mines.
It cuts off three days of the journey.
I remember it as a child.
Tremendous black ravines lead to the entrance from the merchants' trail, and the opening is so small that you could pass it a thousand times without suspecting.
Will you accompany us, Peter Moore--Naradia and I and our followers?
We leave at dawn."
He waited anxiously.
Peter shook his head regretfully.
The song of adventure was musical to his ears, but he could not leave with Kahn Meng in the morning.
There was Miss Lorimer--in Kialang.
"I cannot leave Ching-Fu until to-morrow night."
"That will be as well, perhaps," assented Kahn Meng after a moment's thought.
"We will rest for the night in the Lenchuen Pass.
It is to the right of the black road.
My sentries will be watching for you."
CHAPTER XI

Peter shot the bolt and listened to the sad grumble of the river as he endeavored to adjust this strange incident to the stranger events of the very full evening.
Not until the mysterious Kahn Meng had said his good-night did Peter realize how exhausted he was.
He looked at his watch, a thin gold affair, which had ticked faithfully during all of his adventures, and was exceedingly astonished that the night had already flown to the hour of four-thirty.
Dawn would come very soon, and with the first peep of the sun he was to start for Kialang and Eileen.
The lamp smoked sleepily overhead; far away the great river sang its bass song.
He must be up at dawn.
What a question-mark was Kahn Meng!
A Harvard graduate--and a native of the red city!
And what an adorable creature was the girl Naradia!
Her eyes were like jade, her lips like poppy petals....

A crash of sound, a blaze of golden light, aroused him.
He sat up, dodging a sunbeam which had flicked his eyelids.
Shrill voices came from a distance.
The odor of manure exhaled by the caravan sheds floated into the room, and Peter jumped up front the couch with an angry grunt.
His heart was heavy with the guilt of the man who has overslept.
The watch ticked, and the neat, black hands had covered an amazing amount of ground; it was nearly tiffin-time.
The shrill, distant voices continued.
Curiously, Peter looked out.
It was a beautiful sunlit morning, as clear as spring water.
Miles away the sun shone on the yellow haunches of the range, altering them to a range of heavy gold; and gleamed tenderly on the paddy fields, black and ripely green.
Peter lowered his eyes to the square formed by the intersection of a number of alleys some distance beyond the caravansary.
A sizable mob was collected in this enclosure; he estimated that there were at least a thousand pagan-Chinese assembled, in ring formation--a giant ring, dozens deep, and centered upon a small focussing spot of white.
The spot of white occupied the precise center of the square, and Peter studied it for some moments out of idle curiosity.
Crowning the white object was a smaller spot of chestnut-brown.
He dashed out of his room and down the stairs without even pausing for his hat.
Peter gained the edge of the crowd, and he bored into it, scattering protesting old ladies and chattering old men as ruthlessly as if they had been unfruitful stalks of rice.
It was a desperate fight to the center of that mob, for others were as curious as Peter.
Then, over the swaying shoulders he caught a second glimpse of the chestnut-brown.
It was a woman's hair, and it was familiar in arrangement.
He broke into an arena not more than nine feet in diameter in which were three objects: a wooden cask, upturned, a leather hand-bag, and a small and exceedingly pretty young woman.
Her cheeks were flushed, her eyes were gray and sweet, and her mouth was like an opening rosebud.
"Eileen----" he cried.
"Why, Peter Moore!"
she gasped.
He rushed to take her, but she held up her palms, retreating.
He laughed.
"What under the seven suns are you doing in Ching-Fu--and Kialang--and China?
What's the meaning?"
He observed that a snow-white apron extended from her dimpled chin to her small ankles.
"This is my office hour," she said severely.
"But what does this mean--this?"
he exploded, gesturing wildly toward the circle of attentive onlookers.
"My clinic!"
She smiled.
"You're not practising medicine out here--in this street!"
he ejaculated.
"Indeed I am," she replied.
"Some of these people have been waiting their turns since daylight.
I returned from Kialang an hour ago.
And I'll work until I collapse.
I must.
I wish I could multiply myself by a thousand.
There's not another doctor within miles.
You can watch, if you'd like," she added, then called shrilly.
An old woman appeared, and went scurrying, returning immediately with a clean, wooden bucket filled with hot water.
Eileen removed from the hand-bag what appeared to be a wallet.
Stripping a rubber band from this she revealed a row of shining surgical knives.
Then she produced from the black bag several bottles and a roll of absorbent cotton.
"Eyes," she told him as her hand was swallowed again by the black bag.
A child, a river boy, was pushed forward by a squinting mother.
Quaking fearfully, he sat down on the cask at the girl's feet.
She turned to Peter.
"This child has been without sight for a month.
Without this operation he would remain blind forever.
To-morrow he will see again."
"You're wonderful!"
Peter exclaimed.
At the gentle touch the child's loud whining ceased.
She lifted one of the swollen lids.
The boy did not flinch.
"Filth caused this," she explained.
"The Chinese are the dirtiest race on earth, anyway," she added, dipping a clump of cotton into an antiseptic wash and rinsing the patient's eyes.
"Where there is too much dirt, there is blindness.
One-fourth of the population in this section of China are blind.
They go to 'fortune tellers,' and they remain blind.
In nine cases out of ten the simplest of operations followed by care will cure this type of blindness."
"Good enough; but will they be careful afterward?"
Peter was curious to know.
"Once their sight is given back to them, they follow directions to a T. I'm leaving behind me a trail of the cleanest Chinamen you ever laid eyes on!"
She became silent, and so did Peter, who watched, hardly daring to breathe, the swift, sure dartings of the tiny knife in her white fingers.
It was done in a jiffy; and there seemed to be on pain.
"Shouldn't you have an operating-room?"
inquired Peter, as she bound up the child's eyes in gauze.
She gave him a bright, professional smile.
"Peter, I've learned to operate with a thousand hooting infidels crowding closer than this.
In Nanking I was nearly mobbed."
Peter looked concerned.
"Did they harm you?"
"Oh, no!
They wanted their children, their wives, and their virtuous mothers to see the light of day again."
"Eileen, you're an angel!"
"Be careful, Peter, or I'll kiss you in front of all these people."
She blushed and smiled.
"I think I was very bold to come up here all alone.
Don't you?"
Peter grumbled something which escaped her.
She sat down wearily on the cask and looked up at him forlornly.
"I thought it would be a lark; but it isn't.
It's the hardest kind of work.
There seem to be so many blind people--and I get tired--furious!"
"Can't we break away from this mob and have a little chin-chin by ourselves?"
"You're not anxious, Peter?"
"This is not Shanghai," he rejoined sententiously.
"Ching-Fu is not a healthy spot for me--or for you.
I've been watched.
Perhaps, this very minute----"  He stopped and looked at the dour faces pressed about them.
She shrugged.
"Are you going on to Len Yang this time, Peter?"
He nodded slightly.
"Perhaps."
"With me?"
"Without you," he stated firmly, dimly conscious of a stir on the fringe of their audience.
"It isn't fair," she murmured; "I've come all this way----"  She touched her lips with the tip of a pink tongue.
What she might have added was forestalled by rising confusion on the edge of the crowd.
There were harsh voices, shrill voices; then these sounds were dwarfed by the thunder of furious hoofs.
White with the dust of the lower trail a troop of Mongolian horsemen, riding high in their jeweled saddles, swept into the square, shouting.
Lashing their horses, they drove into the gathering with the fury of Cossacks.
Peter was thrown to one side by a tall man whom he had taken for a peasant.
He tugged at his pocket, but the coolie was fighting his way toward the horsemen.
Indifferent to her struggles and screams, this giant carried Eileen in naked, brawny arms.
Peter leaped after, shouting and cursing at those who stood in his way.
Some one tripped him.
He regained his footing, shot his fist into the jaw of an argumentative youth, and struggled on.
The onlookers were scattering with loud and frightened squeals, running into one another, gathering in bewildered groups, darting for doorways, like sheep attacked by a wolf pack.
Then a black horse swept so close to Peter that the stirrup stripped the buttons from his tunic.
A heavy whip stung him across the shoulders.
When he recovered from this blow the struggling girl was yards away, still struggling, but no longer screaming.
She had been transferred to the arms of a giant Mongol, who evidently was the leader of this pack.
Peter whipped out the automatic and let go a burst at the horseman who now blocked his way; and the Mongolian, in the act of lifting a knife from its holster-scabbard, dipped across the animal's flank, with his eyes rolling toward heaven, his foot caught in one stirrup.
The horse, frightened, leaped up and spun about, twisting the fallen rider about his heels.
And Peter had clear way for another few feet.
Another horseman swept down upon him.
Peter brought the gun up and brought it down with fury.
Twice he shot, and then this interference was removed.
The troops were gathering into crude formation, evidently for another charge.
Eileen had disappeared.
Peter, knowing that she was somewhere in that quadrangle of rearing horses, struck forward, stumbling over fallen bodies, slipping in mud.
His lungs burned, and he choked in a consuming rage.
And suddenly he heard her scream his name.
The leader of the desert pack held her across his saddle, with his mighty arms pinioning her.
He saw Peter, shouted, jabbed down with his spurs, and his mount fairly leaped.
The others wheeled gracefully, and they vanished in thunder toward the plain.
Peter discovered the horse of one of the fallen warriors and leaped to capture him.
And in the next moment he was groping in blindness.
CHAPTER XII

Lingering in his vision was a leering face.
Mud had been thrown into his eyes, and the filth was plastered from eyebrows to nose.
In a flash he recognized the face.
Months ago he had thrown that Chinese from the deck of a steamer into the shark-infested waters of Tandjong Priok, the harbor of Batavia, Java.
Such amusing spectacles as the struggling unbeliever with rich mud plastered in his eyes have a tendency to evoke keen appreciation from the yellow races, who are supposed to be devoid of a sense of humor.
Shrill and explosive laughter was arising on all sides of him.
Light came slowly to his tortured eyes through a thick, yellow film.
All of his muscles were tensed; any instant he expected to experience the long anticipated thrill of cold steel between ribs--or at his throat.
Some kindly Samaritan had taken him by the hand.
Mucous breath assailed him.
He distinctly heard a thud, a grunt, a screamed order.
No words were spoken, yet the mysterious hand tugged urgently at his wrist.
Peter knelt down and raised handfuls of water to his eyes from a tub.
He looked about for his benefactor and met only the leering countenance of a highly amused group of urchins, men and women, diverted as they had probably never been diverted before.
And in the meanwhile he realized with a torn heart that the thundering hoofs were receding farther with each flitting instant.
Peter knocked down one man as he struck out through the amused circle.
The square was now all but deserted.
Two bodies lay in the mud, unattended.
Examination proved these to be the earthly remains of the two Mongolian horsemen--the two he had shot down.
The two horses were unattended.
Peter mounted the nearest.
The air was growing cold.
A keen, ice-edged wind was moving northward from the range, and the sky was graying with storm clouds.
His horse was moving like the wind, perspiring not at all, a thoroughbred, a mount for a prince!
At his present rate he should catch up with the Mongolian rear by nightfall; otherwise the pursuit was certainly lost.
And then Peter fell to wondering what tactics he would pursue when he reached the band.
How could he, alone, armed only with an automatic revolver, hope to overpower professional riflemen who numbered at the least forty?
It was a nice problem; yet he could reason out no simpler solution.
He was bent on a task that might have won applause from a _Don Quixote_.
The sun was settling upon the golden roof of the range, sending out monstrous blue shadows across the valley.
Mountain darkness soon enveloped the world.
A dazzling star appeared with the brilliant suddenness of a coast-light.
The wind was winy with the flavor of high snows.
And suddenly the horse stumbled.
Peter jerked on the reins.
The horse whinnied, dancing awkwardly on three legs.
Peter dismounted.
A foreleg was crippled.
He groaned.
Fate, long his ally, was laughing at him.
The chase was ended.
Suddenly hoofs thudded on the firm dirt; a shadow darted by, nearly colliding with him.
There was a trampling.
A lantern frame clicked, and a lance of yellow light rippled upon his face, broadened.
He glared into the anxious brown eyes of Kahn Meng.
CHAPTER XIII

"You are in time!"
He gripped Peter by the shoulder.
"Have you stopped them?"
gasped Peter.
Kahn Meng indulged in a bitter laugh.
"Only the wind could overtake them."
He shrugged.
"They came--they broke through our lines--and again they broke through!
If they had stopped for battle," he added grimly, "there would have been a different tale to tell."
"And they have taken her to Len Yang?"
Peter suddenly recalled that Kahn Meng probably knew nothing of Eileen.
"The doctor?
Yes," assented Kahn Meng sadly.
"One of my men was in Ching-Fu when the troop drove through.
He was looking out for you.
He arrived only a few moments ago.
By Buddha, how you have traveled!"
"I intend to go on."
Kahn Meng sighed.
"It means only death."
"I am willing."
"But you cannot catch them with any horse.
You would be killed.
We can arrive in Len Yang sooner," Kahn Meng pleaded.
"Everything is ready."
"I'll follow," Peter stated grimly, "on the condition that you answer two questions.
What is your relation to the man at Len Yang----"

"On my word of honor," Kahn Meng interrupted him with emotion, "I am a friend.
Won't that suffice until the morning?
If I were an enemy, if I were on his side----"

"I realize that," Peter stopped him.
"Very well.
I'll wait.
My other question is this: Why does that beast search the world for beautiful women--and consign them to the mines?"
Kahn Meng was silent.
Reluctantly Peter was allowing himself to be led through the darkness over broken ground.
A pale dot of light emerged from the night.
"I do not know," said Kahn Meng finally.
"It is hideous.
I have seen them.
That will be stopped!"
he added tensely.
Under the lantern they paused, and Peter found his strange companion to be examining his features intently.
"I can add nothing to what has been said," Kahn Meng went on.
"I have much to attend to now.
We are starting immediately.
At present will you trust me as I trust you?"
He extended his right hand, and Peter clasped it silently.
The ripe old moon of Tibet was creeping from its bed, tipping the pointed tents with a soft glow.
On such another night as this Peter had first dared to enter the City of Stolen Lives, and the faint, mysterious sounds of a caravan at rest stirred up old memories.
The probable treatment of Eileen at the hands of Len Yang's king was too terrible for him to contemplate.
And he was as helpless at this instant as though he were on the other side of the Pacific Ocean.
A hot flood of anger welled up in his breast.
His palms began to sweat.
Each minute was drawing her closer to the moldy walls.
He could picture her struggling in the arms of the giant Mongolian.
He could see the great drawbridge swinging down to the white road in the moonlight or the blistering heat of noonday.
And on the hill, like a greedy, white vulture, he could see that solemn palace with minarets stretching like claws to the sky, crouching upon the red slime vomited forth by the mines.
A cool voice startled him.
Kahn Meng came out of the darkness.
"Two hundred men will accompany us.
The others will remain here in case an attack is made on our rear.
There may be trouble.
Of course, I could go, unharmed, into Len Yang by the mountain road; but as soon as I entered I would be helpless--a prisoner forever.
He knows I am returning.
He is expecting me.
But he does not know that half his garrison are loyal to me.
The yellow-whiskered one will not be glad to see me," he added with a malicious grin.
The night seemed to be filled with silent, wakeful coolies, armed with rifles.
The grim and watchful silence of the procession, the black mystery of the night with the sinking, cold moon aloft, and the uncertainty of the whole affair, set Peter's nerves to tingling; and his heart was beginning to react to the high excitement of it.
He was elated, yet anxious.
To-night's business was no quest of the golden fleece.
The size of his undertaking, now that he stood, with only a few miles between, at the threshold of achievement, was overwhelming.
He had pledged himself.
How he would proceed if the present venture succeeded was another matter.
Fate or opportunity would have to shape his next steps.
Perhaps in Kahn Meng, the mysterious, might rest the solution.
Peter was an adventurer by choice, and an engineer by profession.
Under given conditions he knew what to expect of men and machines.
Before he had taken to the seas as a wireless operator he had had some experience as a railroad builder.
He had laid rails in California, and Mexico.
A successful career in that profession had been foregone when the warm hand of Romance laid hold of him.
He wondered how he could adjust himself to the routine of his old profession again, if that was the opportunity awaiting him in Len Yang.
Governmental problems, he knew, would have to be given to more specialized men, such perhaps as Kahn Meng.
He looked behind him, at the long line of men stretched down the narrow ravine like the tail of a colossal serpent.
Occasionally a stone, dislodged, clattered down into the crevices.
Above them the rock stretched and lost itself in the cold purple of the night.
The moon carved out vast shadows, black and threatening.
They emerged at length into a broader valley, jagged with spires flashing with gleams of the moon on frequent mirror-like surfaces.
Ten thousand men could have been concealed in this desolate cavern.
Yet it rang with emptiness as, far arear, a steel prod struck powdery fire from the flinty path.
Hours seemed to pass as they advanced, descending constantly.
At times the granite walls nearly met above them, and then a shaft of moonlight would cast freakish shapes across their vision.
Once they paused for rest near a torrential stream.
Some lingered to drink.
The blackness in the sky was yielding itself to the spectral glow of the new day when Kahn Meng gave the order to halt.
He took Peter aside and explained his procedure.
His plan was to send fifty men through the tunnel to the main shaft to subdue the guards; the remainder of the armed coolies, numbering about one hundred and fifty, would follow, forming a protective chain to the black door, an underground entrance.
"There should be no trouble, no confusion--a bloodless revolution," he added with a nervous, elated laugh.
"I will occupy the place--you will follow.
Wait ten minutes."
Peter nodded.
"A tunnel, fairly straight, leads from here directly to the black door.
Have your revolver in readiness.
My men may not make a clean job.
The mine guards carry clubs.
Each of my coolies has a rifle."
Kahn Meng's eyes in the light of a torch were glittering excitedly.
He grasped Peter's nearest hand in his enthusiasm.
"We are so near!
Only a step!"
He laughed wildly, lifted his voice ecstatically to a sing-song and chanted from Ouan-Oui: "Then----

"'Let us rejoice together.
and fill our porcelain goblets   with cool wine!'"
CHAPTER XIV

Now Peter was an emotional young man.
And wrathful notions were kindled in him before he encountered the only guard Kahn Meng's men had overlooked--may the bones of that one rest gently!
He saw little children clawing in red muck; he saw young girls with sunken breasts, their former beauty a wretched caricature, carrying dying babes upon their backs.
He saw tired old men, and women, crippled, blind, with red fingers and wrists, as if they had been dipped in blood.
He saw plenty to enrage him.
Kahn Meng's guards bowed gravely as he passed them at tunnel passages.
He had walked perhaps three-quarters of an hour generally in a single direction, bearing a torch, when he collided with a smooth, flat obstruction.
Somewhere in the earth distantly behind him occurred a metallic rumble, followed by a gust of soft wind, fragrant with the outdoors.
He was staring at blackness, the varnished blackness of a great wooden door.
He was at the threshold!
somewhere on the other side of that enormous wooden barrier was the man of Len Yang!
Chalked boldly upon the surface was the legend:

P. M.--straight on--K. M.

Pulling with his fingers and bracing his feet in the rough floor, the mass moved monumentally toward him.
It swung wide, on great, concealed hinges.
Peter's adventurous heart was beating an excited battle call.
His burning eyes strained beyond the ruddy luminance of the torch, and examined--white marble!
He was at his journey's end--somewhere in the palace of the Gray Dragon!
Peter dragged the great door softly shut behind him, and found himself in a chamber of vast proportions, built of what had at one time been purest white marble, discolored entirely now by the red taint of the bloody ore.
The floor was perspiring redly.
Going on tiptoe to the center of the space, he searched the blank walls, listening breathlessly.
He heard nothing but the faint patter of the dripping slime, and he went swiftly to the end of the musty antechamber and discovered at the distant end the fourth wall, hitherto unseen.
Reaching from the left corner of the scarlet tomb was a narrow staircase built also of marble.
Dropping his hand nervously into his right-hand tunic pocket, he went up and pushed open another door.
He found himself now in a snow-white corridor, faintly lighted by grilles overhead.
The hall reached gloomily into gray distance, and it was quite vacant.
An unseen fountain was playing near by.
At his left was another door, closed.
The closed door attracted him.
Certainly there was no other course now than a detailed exploration.
Bracing himself for a surprise in this palace of hideous surprises, he flung open the door, and entered black darkness.
Carelessly he closed the door behind him, listening and sniffing.
At first he heard nothing, but he smelled altar-incense faintly.
A deep-voiced gong suddenly reverberated while Peter tensed himself.
The sonorous melody lifted and crashed, subsiding into countless unmusical overtones.
Lighter metal rang upon wood.
Then lights--electric lights--by the dozens, hundreds--thousands--blazed with a violent suddenness, a suddenness that Peter could compare only with that of a tropical sun leaping out of the ocean; and Peter blinked upon green.
It was a hideous green, a green of diabolical intensity.
He shivered.
It seemed to creep, to writhe, this green.
At first he could not absorb this insane color idea; and he stood there, with his heart sinking.
He discovered that he was occupying an oblong green rug of satin.
He was dazzled by the green glare of a cluster of quartz lights in front of him, and he stared, first at a monstrous green Buddha, squatting on a thighless rump between flashing green pillars, and finally at the most hideous individual he had ever gazed upon, a human, who occupied a throne carved solidly from green jade.
The glimpse was like stepping from a dark dream into the center of an aquamarine nightmare.
And in the instant following his partial digestion of the viridescent scheme he was possessed with the notion that the occupant of such a chamber of horror must certainly be insane.
That was the first idea to possess Peter.
He was not surprised to find that he was unafraid.
Anticipation is much more fearful than realization.
He had experienced many panicky moments in looking forward to this meeting; and yet in the presence of him he was cool.
The Gray Dragon of Len Yang?
From the tail of his eye he detected a man with folded arms backed against the door.
At either side of the green throne stood Mongolian guards, armed with rifles.
They struck the only dissonant note of the picture, for they were garbed in desert brown.
Evidently all ways of escape were closed.
For two years he had contrived to elude the tracers, the killers, sent out by this creature, and now he had deliberately walked upon his swords.
Death?
Where was Kahn Meng?
Possessed with a feeling akin to cat-like curiosity, Peter walked slowly to the beryl throne steps, where he paused, with his fists gripped tightly in his pockets, his chin up, and his shoulders back.
Close scrutiny did not soften the bestial cruelty of the face of Len Yang's ruler.
It was a startling face, as gray as fresh clay, sharply wrinkled.
The nose was exceedingly long and sharp, with a crooked joint.
Dirty-yellow mandarin mustaches drooped like wet sea-weed from the sides of a curling, sneering mouth.
And it was dominated by a pair of very small, very bright green eyes, set deep and exceedingly close together.
But the tenor of the face was gray, the gray of living death, and from this emblem, Peter suddenly decided, the man had been given his descriptive name.
Long, gray talons reached out from the folds of a mandarin jacket and toyed nervously with a strand of gray hair which jutted from the pigtail winding over the slanting shoulder.
The green eyes blinked as they completed the survey of Peter Moore.
The curling lips were moving.
"Peter Moore!"
he rasped.
"The most daring foreigner who has yet visited my city!
Peter the Brazen, with a reputation of breaking the hearts of beautiful women!
You are late.
I have been waiting upon this visit for two years!"
He leaned forward, and Peter retreated a step.
"What have you done with her?"
Peter snapped.
The Gray Dragon sank back with a sigh.
"Ah!
Would you like to gaze upon that which can never be yours?"
"May I see her--once--before I die?"
"That is a wise statement.
You are altogether wise--astonishingly so!
Wisdom is a rare gem in one so young."
He chuckled in an irritating treble.
"Look about you again, youth.
This is known as the room of the green death.
Few men leave the room of the green death alive.
My hounds bay when they enter.
"The young woman is here--safe.
If you will answer my questions, I may permit you to gaze upon her just once before you die!
Perhaps I may be so lenient as to allow you to die together.
Does not that appeal to you?"
he demanded, as if anxious.
"You--who are so thirsty for the gold of romance?"
Peter glared at him silently, and his fingers were twitching.
His host tapped the resonant gong.
Some one stepped behind Peter, for he distinctly heard the seep of silken garments.
The man on the green throne muttered, adding to Peter: "I am granting your wish.
You may gaze upon her before you die.
I, too, will gaze, for I prize her highly, as you know."
He sank back meditatively, and in that moment the gray face became oddly sane.
"Peter Moore, seldom do I permit men who have troubled me so sorely to escape alive.
Perhaps, in face of what has happened, you are foolishly taking unto yourself credit.
And still, for a reason unknown to me, I hesitate.
"Listen to me closely, youth!
For these two years I have watched you with my thousands of hired eyes--you cannot realize how closely!
Because I was deeply interested.
You are a riddle to me.
You have the emotions of a woman, and the cunning of a _hu-li_.
"Times without count word has gone forth from this green room that your death must take place.
Childish curiosity to stare just once upon the foolish adventurer has caused that word to be revoked!
Do not assume credit for bravery that was not yours, Peter Moore!
You are not heroic; you have been a plaything.
The gods are through with you.
"Harken to me, Peter the foolish.
Within these green walls daily are inscribed the names of men and women who must die.
Your name has been spoken, yet never once has it been written.
When it is written----" He paused with a portentous hush.
"To-day, when I realized you were at last coming to me, when spy after spy ran to my feet to say that at last--at last--Peter Moore, the unconquerable, was coming to pay his long-overdue call--I hastened with that daily quota of names of those who are doomed, so that I could attend you with undivided attention.
"Can it interest you?
Nine men are doomed.
Within two weeks from this hour a mandarin will die by the knife, an ambassador at the court of Peking will expire by poison, an indiscreet Javanese merchant----"  He waved his skinny arms impatiently.
"Those whose names are written must inevitably die.
If the name of Peter Moore had but once appeared on the green silk--I could have forgotten you--and rested.
But I was restrained by a most curious impulse."
He looked at Peter eagerly.
"You have perplexed, almost fascinated me.
Tell me first, what was your power over Romola Borria?"
Peter only grunted, angrily astonished.
"Wait!"
cautioned the curling lips.
"I am not ridiculing you.
I am keenly desirous of knowing."
He frowned, pondering.
"I will tell you about that woman.
Romola Borria was sent to me, and I employed her.
For certain difficult tasks she was all that I desired--more beautiful than sunset on the Tibetan snow--a glorious woman, yet as cold, as unfriendly as that same snow.
Her spirit was one of ice, yet fire.
"And her heart was stone--or snow also.
I sent her directly to communicate a certain thing to you--to kill you in the event that you declined.
Shall I tell you how many men she has put out of the way at my bidding before and after she met you?
No matter.
"Romola Borria was proof against love.
No man was created for her to love.
Yet that snowy heart melted, that precious coldness vanished, when she met--Peter Moore!"
The Gray Dragon paused, and the cessation of his metallic voice, the quick relinquishing of the evil glint in his small, green eyes, left Peter with a deeper feeling of revulsion than previously.
It had been his imaginative belief that the Gray Dragon was utterly without human traits; yet he possessed that lowest of them all, a bestial curiosity.
"I can all but read your thoughts," he went on, lidding his green eyes a number of times.
"You are saying what my victims invariably say when I grant them these rare audiences before they die.
Over and over you are repeating--'Beast!
Beast!
Beast!'
Is that not true?"
"That is absolutely true!"
Malice seemed to hover about the glittering green eyes, and was gone at once.
"Peter Moore, to gaze at you is like gazing into a crystal.
In you I witness that supreme quality which was denied me in my youth.
I can have anything in the world but that supreme, that sublime quality.
I can buy anything in the world but that."
The voice stopped.
Peter shifted his glance momentarily to the armed attendants who guarded this evil life.
An inner whisper counseled him: "Not yet!
Not yet!
There is time!"
"Yet there is a chance that I may reconsider; that I may permit you to continue to live--perhaps in the mines.
But certainly, Peter the foolish, you must not yield to that present impulse.
Of course, you are armed.
But do not move!
Two feet behind you stands an excellent shot with a pistol aimed at your backbone.
Men with cracked spines do not live long!"
He chuckled.
"What was I about to say?
Ah, yes!
If I could purchase from you that quality--if I could, I say, anything in my kingdom would be yours--everything!
It is the one thing I have been denied.
Holy wheel!
It is strange, this way I am talking!
I have rarely had such an interested audience.
Most of my captives at this stage are cringing, are kissing my feet."
The snarling grin left his lips again, and his mood became strangely soft, like dead flesh, so Peter thought, as he waited--with that pistol at his backbone!
"I intend telling you an amazing story, which you may or may not credit.
I am telling it--this confession--partly because I dislike the look in your blue eyes.
Like everyone else, you loathe me.
But I will erase that look.
I intend to show you I am even more human than you!
"By Buddha, I will tell that story to you--you, Peter Moore, the most fortunate man in all China this hour.
Think, before I begin, of that mandarin, that bungling Javanese merchant, who, also, are about to die.
Then forget all else--and listen.
"This took place many years ago, when I was a young man, like yourself.
I, too, loved a woman.
Can you understand me?
I, too, once loved a woman, a maiden of the Punjab.
I can conceive her in the veil of my memory still.
Eyes like dusty stars, skin the color of the Tibetan dawn, the dawn that you may never again look upon.
"Her heart was gold, so I thought.
Yet it was dross.
On a night in springtime, in the bazaar at Mangalore, we two first met.
I have not forgotten.
That night I fell in love with the white orchid from the Punjab.
She was more beautiful to me than life or death, a feast of beauty.
"Len Yang was mine then, and I was a rich prince, but not so rich as now.
Drunkenly I was casting my gold about the bazaar when we met.
She saw me--and she smiled!
It was the first time any woman had smiled upon me, and I was alarmed and troubled.
I was no more handsome than now.
I was the man that no one loved.
_Chuh-seng_--the beast--was my name even then, among those who tolerated my friendship because of my fluent gold.
"And when the Punjab maiden smiled upon me, I thought to myself: '_Chuh-seng_, love has come at last to sweeten your bitter heart.'
What should a young lover have done?
I--I bought the bazaar and presented it to her--on bended knees!
"She confessed that she could love me, despite my ugliness, this white orchid of the plains.
Peter Moore, do not look at me.
You can believe--if you do not look.
She kissed me--on my lips!
Again she said she loved me.
Had I been a thousand times uglier, she would have loved me a thousand times more passionately!
Heaven had joined us.
And I forgave my enemies, renewed my vows at the wheel, and blessed every virgin star!
"Love had come to me at last!
Me--the most hideous in all of Asia.
And I believed her.
What would you have done, Peter Moore--you who know so well the heart of woman?
Never mind.
I believed everything.
"We lingered in Mangalore.
But I did not know then of the Singhalese merchant--the trader who owned three miserable camels.
He possessed not handsomeness, but the romantic glamour which you possess, Peter the Brazen!
Reveling in my love, I was as blind as these imbeciles in my mines.
Our child was born.
"She could have taken more, had she not been so lovestruck.
She could have had my all--my gems, my pearls, and rubies, and diamonds, more colossal than the treasure of any raja--my mines which dripped with the precious mercury!
"Yet she stole only my gold which was convenient, and went out into the starlit night with the Singhalese trader, to share the romance of the blinding desert--the Singhalese trader, a man of no caste at all!
Love?
That was my love!"
The hideous, gray face retreated behind talons as though to blot out the thought of that ancient betrayal.
When the talons again dropped down, the dead softness of the face was replaced by the former sneer.
This change was quite shocking.
The beast was laughing harshly.
"If I could not have love, I could at least have hate!
I have hated more passionately than any man has ever loved!"
Peter said nothing to this, although the gray lips closed and the green eyes looked at him expectantly, almost demanding comment.
Surely this creature was insane, with his room of the green death, his wild tales of love of a Punjab maiden, of wholesale hate.
The Gray Dragon seemed irritated.
"What have you to say now?"
"I was only wondering," said Peter, as if suddenly tired, "when that pistol is to explode at my back."
"There is yet time," muttered his host.
"No man has yet left this room in contempt of me!
Can you believe I have lied?"
he snarled.
"Why, you fool!"
he croaked.
"I will teach you!
What do you suppose has become of that other one whom you met at the _weng_ into the hills?
Do you imagine my men were not in his camp?
Every inch of the way you two were watched.
"And what has become of your prudence?
You who defied me, who escaped me--undone by a woman!
She is why you are here.
Because you are such a fool you shall die.
I might have relented.
I thought you were proof against love.
Is any one?
Is any one proof against it but me?
Ah----"

He looked eagerly beyond Peter, and Peter heard a frightened sob, then a little cry, as the door closed heavily.
CHAPTER XV

She flew across the room to him, and pressed her hands to his cheeks.
Her eyes were sparkling with tears, and her face was very pale.
Only her lips, which were everlastingly bright, gave color to that distressed young face.
"Peter!"
she moaned.
"Oh, I was so afraid!"
She lowered her voice.
"What is to become of us?"
He looked down at her and forced a smile to his lips.
"We who are about to die----" he began grimly.
She gave him a twisted smile as his arms tightened about her.
He loved her for that courage.
With his arm at her waist he turned.
He had observed that the Gray Dragon had spoken truly as regarded the armed coolie at his back.
Their captor bent forward and fixed upon them the most curious of glances.
His merciless, green eyes ran from Eileen's tumbled chestnut hair to her small, tan boots--then he regarded Peter with the same intensity, and thereupon he seemed to be weighing the doomed lovers as a unit, or as an idea.
A devilish smile cracked his lips.
"So this is love?"
he cackled.
"This is the young woman to whom you have thrown your life away--after most splendid resistance--you, Peter the Brazen!
Do you still love her?"
He pointed a crooked forefinger at Eileen.
"Tell me, would you desert him, in this first flush of your maiden love, for a handsomer man--and steal his gold, after he laid the earth at your feet?
Would you do that?"
Methodically the talons stroked the sea-weed mustache.
"You are too anxious for death.
You are romantic.
Youth does have such ideas.
Even I, _Chuh-seng_, have such notions.
Death?
Why does your little mind single out such simple punishment--you--lovers?
Romantically you long for death, because in the next world you would come together again--in the lover's eternity of heaven.
"But I have a far more imaginative scheme.
Separation!
How does that appeal to you?"
He leaned forward and watched them.
"I have an excellent plan.
One of you shall work until the end of his life in this mine, as beautiful captives in the past quarter century have slaved and died; the other shall labor until the end of life in my quarries, not more than one hundred miles from Len Yang.
"Then you will not speak of death.
You will struggle and you will grow old long before your time, as the others have done, hoping that vain hope of again meeting.
And I shall grant your wish!
Years from now, when youth and the divine passion of youth have flown--when only the bitter dregs of that rapturous love remain--then you shall be reunited."
He cackled humorously in his treble.
"O Buddha!
How long have I waited for such an opportunity?
How long?
How long?
Is it twenty years--or forty--or a thousand--since that night in the bazaar at Mangalore?"
His green eyes rolled to the green ceiling.
And his mood underwent another vast change, this creature of monster moods.
"Are you grateful to me, you two?
You should be!
It was I who brought you together--I, the cruelest man in all Asia!
It must have been a divine night, that night on the great river, Peter Moore, when she came into your arms.
Love blazed in your hearts that night; and this gray-eyed witch said, with downcast eyes: 'I like you, Peter Moore!'
What difference what she said?
Any words would have dripped as much with love!"
He sprang to his feet, groaning, his evil countenance undergoing convulsions, as of terrific inner spasms.
"You shall not have that!"
he shouted.
"You shall not have love!
What I have done, I shall undo!
You shall live apart.
Love has been refused me; love is refused all who come within my reach!
That is my decision.
Nor shall you have death.
One of you to the quarry--the other to the mines.
I shall be generous.
You may make your choice.
And _that_ is my decision!"
The lovers stared at him.
The vicious plan had gripped Peter's imagination.
Gone was all thought of the pistol, which lay even now in the palm of his hand.
One shot would have silenced the beast forever; but he had forgotten such things as bullets and pistols.
He could realize only that, even before their first kiss had been exchanged, they would be torn apart.
The color had receded from Peter's skin and eyes; he looked very much nearer forty than thirty.
And Eileen was reflecting that despairing attitude.
She could think only of him toiling wretchedly in the mines or quarries, striving against a fate as unfriendly, as unyielding, as a wall of cold granite.
The Gray Dragon sank back, with his chest heaving.
His features were working.
The spasm had exhausted him; and the green brilliance gave his gray skin a ghastly pallor.
He lifted a small silver hammer and brought it down upon the belly of a large bronze gong.
There was a stir behind them.
With the same cold hate in his expression as he addressed himself again to the lovers, who clung together like small children, pitiful objects indeed in this hall of pitiless green.
"The others are coming; their fate will be yours--you lovers!"
He turned to address words in dialect to the Mongolian on his right, and in the space Eileen's breath came warmly upon Peter's ear.
"Are you armed?"
she whispered.
His nod was hardly perceptible.
He dropped his hand into his pocket, and at that instant his arms were pinioned.
The revolver was snatched from his fingers.
The malicious green eyes were staring beyond them.
Peter heard a low sob, instantly stifled.
Naradia, with bloodshot eyes, was searching his face in distress.
Her black hair had been arranged in a heavy braid, which ran down her back in a glistening rope.
Kahn Meng's sad eyes lingered on Peter's for a moment, sparkling with guilt, and his face was crestfallen.
Plainer than any words could have said, his expression cried out: "I have failed!
I am sorry."
Then he advanced to the throne, taking his stand at the Gray Dragon's side, a maneuver which was thoroughly mystifying to Peter.
The Gray Dragon seemed to ignore his presence.
To Peter he said: "You recognize your companion of last night?
The man with a legion of a thousand loyal men at his back?"
Peter nodded, muttering.
The Gray Dragon waved Kahn Meng to one side.
"He is my son.
He is my son by my faithful wife!
Do you understand that, Peter Moore?"
"Your son?
And he will carry on your work?"
"Precisely that!
You have expressed it neatly, Peter Moore.
The Gray Dragon will carry on the work of the Gray Dragon!"
The mystery of Kahn Meng was cleared aside.
Fury directed at his treachery swelled in Peter's breast and burst.
It was as though a torch had been applied.
The flame of an ancient ancestral fire, when men fought for their lives and their loves with clubs, and nails, and teeth, burst into his brain and into his breast.
The muscles under his tunic-sleeve, which clung to his arm from the moisture of perspiration, rippled and flexed and hardened.
His face--the clean, handsome face of well-lived youth--was quite dreadful to look upon--flushed to a fiery red and distorted.
His lips were skinned back over his white teeth.
The thunder of his roar fairly shook the green quartz pillars, between which the smug, green Buddha smiled complacently, impervious to the rages of foolish mankind.
Peter sprang upon the heels of that roar like a mass of wonderfully controlled steel at the crouching figure, a figure whose countenance was suddenly wet and white.
He tore the carbine from the fingers of the nearest guard before that one could collect his wits.
The Mongolian sprawled over backward, and in the second instant the heavy butt of the carbine came down with a shuddering crash upon the skull-cap of the man who would no longer rule Len Yang!
With such tremendous vigor was that blow delivered that the walnut stock, as tough as iron, shivered into splinters, which swam in the bursting brains of the victim.
Screaming, Peter swung the stock again, and again, as if he would beat his wretched victim to a pulp.
Nothing but the barrel and breech mechanism remained.
His murderous intention seemed to be to remove, to obliterate for all time, the hideous face, to wipe out by means of his brute strength the gray countenance.
Suddenly he sprang away from him with the elastic stride of a panther.
Kahn Meng, the traitor, was next.
And as he leaped Kahn Meng slipped from his own pocket a revolver and dodged Peter's blow.
Peter staggered backward, reaching the center of the room, dragging the bloody and bent carbine barrel in a red trail.
There he stopped, swaying, toppling.
Darkness was assailing him.
He was sinking into a pit.
And the heart was fluttering, laboring treacherously under the poison created in his blood by fury.
The green lights spun.
He threw the carbine barrel at the complacent Buddha, where it clanked to the marble flags.
And he withered like the lotus, sprawling upon his back with his eyes tightly shut, the color fast disappearing from his complexion.
And his head was reclining upon the small, tan boots of Eileen.
CHAPTER XVI

Somewhere in the distance a sweet-voiced temple bell resounded dreamily.
Vague odors of sandalwood and wistaria swam in the soft, cool air.
A ray of warm sunlight fell upon Peter's inert hand, and he opened his eyes.
Memory came slowly back to him.
He remembered that he had killed.
The last thing he distinctly recalled from that moment of ungovernable fury which had taken hold of him was that Kahn Meng, the traitor, had drawn a pistol.
As a natural consequence he should be dead.
Perhaps he was.
Slowly his brain became clear, although queer vapors arose in it.
Soft footsteps crossed the stone flagging with a clicking of dainty heels.
Small fingers, exquisite to the touch, brushed the tousled hair from his forehead.
These were cool and pleasant.
"Old Sweetheart!"
said a happy voice.
The cool fingers crept underneath his chin and lingered there.
Others crept under his neck.
A warm, satiny cheek floated down to rest upon his forehead.
Dozens of questions swarmed out of the wreckage of his waking consciousness.
"You are safe?
Where are we?
What happened to that scoundrel, Kahn Meng?
Why did they bring you here?
Did they harm you?
Who hit----"

A silvery laugh interrupted him.
"Yes, yes--yes!"
said the voice that was sweeter to him than all of the music in Christendom with heathendom thrown in for good measure.
"I am safe.
I was kidnapped and treated with all respect due a famous doctor--because a dead monster was suffering from neuritis.
We are alone, in a tiny glass house on the roof of the ivory palace, and dawn has this very moment come.
Such a glorious dawn, Peter!
"Are you rested?
I never saw any one so completely burned out.
Such fury!
Gracious, what a man!
But why, Peter, did you attack poor Kahn Meng?
He's the best friend you have in the world!"
"The Gray Dragon!"
muttered Peter, clenching his fists.
"Peter, Kahn Meng would lay down his life for you.
Of course, he is the Gray Dragon; but that is only a name now.
He is the Gray Dragon, and he has you, and you only, to thank for it.
"The title is hereditary, and he is the last of his line.
He knew what that monstrous father of his was doing, and he has been helpless--until you freed him.
And the dreadful secret, Peter, is that that beast was not Kahn Meng's father.
A Singhalese trader, murdered years ago, was his father, and his mother, a beautiful woman of the Punjab, was for a time the wife of the beast!
"The entire organization has now come under Kahn Meng's control.
He is the Gray Dragon of Len Yang, and it is a title that from now on will be a power for good, for construction!
"You can't imagine what wonderful plans he has.
He's a genius--that young man is, Peter!
And you--you--are to be his chief executive, the viceroy of Len Yang!
The chief of mines, of transportation, of labor!
He told me that millions of dollars of capital are at your disposal.
"Last night we planned a great railroad line, running from the mines to Chosen and Peking and Tientsin!
Think of it, Peter!
What opportunity!
"While I," Eileen went on blithely, "am to start a hospital.
No more blindness, no more sickness, in Len Yang.
And shorter working hours.
And an age limit.
And schools.
And good food, and lots of it!
"From now on our work is to assume a world-wide importance.
Word came over the wireless late last night that Germany has finally started the long-expected European war.
Kahn Meng believes every nation will be drawn into it.
So there is another menace for you to help stamp out--the Dragon of Europe.
Kahn Meng says these mines, and the copper and iron mines, nearer the coast, can help--wonderfully!"
Peter felt vastly happy, too enthralled to believe that the state could endure.
He stood up from the cot and looked down into the bright face of the one woman in the world.
It was radiant, very pink, now, and her round eyes were tender and meek.
Perhaps she was a little frightened by the fierceness which had developed in his expression.
She opened her arms with a little laugh.
He crushed her close.
Their lips met and clung.
He pushed her away, and his blue eyes were impassioned.
Eileen smiled.
"Look!"
The white snow on the high peaks across the valley glowed with the heavy gold of sunrise.
Far below them, midway to the green wall, he saw a great mass of people.
There were hundreds packed about the mouth of the shaft.
He wondered why they were waiting; then the shrill voice of a crier penetrated the cool morning air.
The thousands waited in silence.
Peter wondered at their dumbness in the face of the news that the man who had ridden them into blindness, into starvation and death, was no longer to tyrannize over them.
The crier continued to shout his singsong.
How would the spirit of that mob react to the announcement?
The singsong halted, and for a breathless moment the miners, too, were silent.
Then a great volume of sound disturbed the morning hush.
It swelled in volume, rose in key--a great thunder, the thunder of laughing voices, the hysterical joy of a people made free!
It filled the valley and overflowed into the hills, a prolonged wave of happy tumult.