CHAPTER I

CORALIE

It was close upon half-past six and the evening shadows were growing denser when two soldiers reached the little space, planted with trees, opposite the Musée Galliéra, where the Rue de Chaillot and the Rue Pierre-Charron meet.
One wore an infantryman's sky-blue great-coat; the other, a Senegalese, those clothes of undyed wool, with baggy breeches and a belted jacket, in which the Zouaves and the native African troops have been dressed since the war.
One of them had lost his right leg, the other his left arm.
They walked round the open space, in the center of which stands a fine group of Silenus figures, and stopped.
The infantryman threw away his cigarette.
The Senegalese picked it up, took a few quick puffs at it, put it out by squeezing it between his fore-finger and thumb and stuffed it into his pocket.
All this without a word.
Almost at the same time two more soldiers came out of the Rue Galliéra.
It would have been impossible to say to what branch they belonged, for their military attire was composed of the most incongruous civilian garments.
However, one of them sported a Zouave's _chechia_, the other an artilleryman's _képi_.
The first walked on crutches, the other on two sticks.
These two kept near the newspaper-kiosk which stands at the edge of the pavement.
Three others came singly by the Rue Pierre-Charron, the Rue Brignoles and the Rue de Chaillot: a one-armed rifleman, a limping sapper and a marine with a hip that looked as if it was twisted.
Each of them made straight for a tree and leant against it.
Not a word was uttered among them.
None of the seven crippled soldiers seemed to know his companions or to trouble about or even perceive their presence.
They stood behind their trees or behind the kiosk or behind the group of Silenus figures without stirring.
And the few wayfarers who, on that evening of the 3rd of April, 1915, crossed this unfrequented square, which received hardly any light from the shrouded street-lamps, did not slacken pace to observe the men's motionless outlines.
A clock struck half-past six.
At that moment the door of one of the houses overlooking the square opened.
A man came out, closed the door behind him, crossed the Rue de Chaillot and walked round the open space in front of the museum.
It was an officer in khaki.
Under his red forage-cap, with its three lines of gold braid, his head was wrapped in a wide linen bandage, which hid his forehead and neck.
He was tall and very slenderly built.
His right leg ended in a wooden stump with a rubber foot to it.
He leant on a stick.
Leaving the square, he stepped into the roadway of the Rue Pierre-Charron.
Here he turned and gave a leisurely look to his surroundings on every side.
This minute inspection brought him to one of the trees facing the museum.
With the tip of his cane he gently tapped a protruding stomach.
The stomach pulled itself in.
The officer moved off again.
This time he went definitely down the Rue Pierre-Charron towards the center of Paris.
He thus came to the Avenue des Champs-Élysées, which he went up, taking the left pavement.
Two hundred yards further on was a large house, which had been transformed, as a flag proclaimed, into a hospital.
The officer took up his position at some distance, so as not to be seen by those leaving, and waited.
It struck a quarter to seven and seven o'clock.
A few more minutes passed.
Five persons came out of the house, followed by two more.
At last a lady appeared in the hall, a nurse wearing a wide blue cloak marked with the Red Cross.
"Here she comes," said the officer.
She took the road by which he had arrived and turned down the Rue Pierre-Charron, keeping to the right-hand pavement and thus making for the space where the street meets the Rue de Chaillot.
Her walk was light, her step easy and well-balanced.
The wind, buffeting against her as she moved quickly on her way, swelled out the long blue veil floating around her shoulders.
Notwithstanding the width of the cloak, the rhythmical swing of her body and the youthfulness of her figure were revealed.
The officer kept behind her and walked along with an absent-minded air, twirling his stick, like a man taking an aimless stroll.
At this moment there was nobody in sight, in that part of the street, except him and her.
But, just after she had crossed the Avenue Marceau and some time before he reached it, a motor standing in the avenue started driving in the same direction as the nurse, at a fixed distance from her.
It was a taxi-cab.
And the officer noticed two things: first, that there were two men inside it and, next, that one of them leant out of the window almost the whole time, talking to the driver.
He was able to catch a momentary glimpse of this man's face, cut in half by a heavy mustache and surmounted by a gray felt hat.
Meanwhile, the nurse walked on without turning round.
The officer had crossed the street and now hurried his pace, the more so as it struck him that the cab was also increasing its speed as the girl drew near the space in front of the museum.
From where he was the officer could take in almost the whole of the little square at a glance; and, however sharply he looked, he discerned nothing in the darkness that revealed the presence of the seven crippled men.
No one, moreover, was passing on foot or driving.
In the distance only, in the dusk of the wide crossing avenues, two tram-cars, with lowered blinds, disturbed the silence.
Nor did the girl, presuming that she was paying attention to the sights of the street, appear to see anything to alarm her.
She gave not the least sign of hesitation.
And the behavior of the motor-cab following her did not seem to strike her either, for she did not look round once.
The cab, however, was gaining ground.
When it neared the square, it was ten or fifteen yards, at most, from the nurse; and, by the time that she, still noticing nothing, had reached the first trees, it came closer yet and, leaving the middle of the road, began to hug the pavement, while, on the side opposite the pavement, the left-hand side, the man who kept leaning out had opened the door and was now standing on the step.
The officer crossed the street once more, briskly, without fear of being seen, so heedless did the two men now appear of anything but their immediate business.
He raised a whistle to his lips.
There was no doubt that the expected event was about to take place.
The cab, in fact, pulled up suddenly.
The two men leapt from the doors on either side and rushed to the pavement of the square, a few yards from the kiosk.
At the same moment there was a cry of terror from the girl and a shrill whistle from the officer.
And, also at the same time, the two men caught up and seized their victim and dragged her towards the cab, while the seven wounded soldiers, seeming to spring from the very trunks of the trees that hid them, fell upon the two aggressors.
The battle did not last long.
Or rather there was no battle.
At the outset the driver of the taxi, perceiving that the attack was being countered, made off and drove away as fast as he could.
As for the two men, realizing that their enterprise had failed and finding themselves faced with a threatening array of uplifted sticks and crutches, not to mention the barrel of a revolver which the officer pointed at them, they let go the girl, tacked from side to side, to prevent the officer from taking aim, and disappeared in the darkness of the Rue Brignoles.
"Run for all you're worth, Ya-Bon," said the officer to the one-armed Senegalese, "and bring me back one of them by the scruff of the neck!"
He supported the girl with his arm.
She was trembling all over and seemed ready to faint.
"Don't be frightened, Little Mother Coralie," he said, very anxiously.
"It's I, Captain Belval, Patrice Belval."
"Ah, it's you, captain!"
she stammered.
"Yes; all your friends have gathered round to defend you, all your old patients from the hospital, whom I found in the convalescent home."
"Thank you.
Thank you."
And she added, in a quivering voice, "The others?
Those two men?"
"Run away.
Ya-Bon's gone after them."
"But what did they want with me?
And what miracle brought you all here?"
"We'll talk about that later, Little Mother Coralie.
Let's speak of you first.
Where am I to take you?
Don't you think you'd better come in here with me, until you've recovered and taken a little rest?"
Assisted by one of the soldiers, he helped her gently to the house which he himself had left three-quarters of an hour before.
The girl let him do as he pleased.
They all entered an apartment on the ground-floor and went into the drawing-room, where a bright fire of logs was burning.
He switched on the electric light:

"Sit down," he said.
She dropped into a chair; and the captain at once gave his orders:

"You, Poulard, go and fetch a glass in the dining-room.
And you, Ribrac, draw a jug of cold water in the kitchen.
.
. .
Chatelain, you'll find a decanter of rum in the pantry.
.
. .
Or, stay, she doesn't like rum.
.
. .
Then .
. ."
"Then," she said, smiling, "just a glass of water, please."
Her cheeks, which were naturally pale, recovered a little of their warmth.
The blood flowed back to her lips; and the smile on her face was full of confidence.
Her face, all charm and gentleness, had a pure outline, features almost too delicate, a fair complexion and the ingenuous expression of a wondering child that looks on life with eyes always wide open.
And all this, which was dainty and exquisite, nevertheless at certain moments gave an impression of energy, due no doubt to her shining, dark eyes and to the line of smooth, black hair that came down on either side from under the white cap in which her forehead was imprisoned.
"Aha!"
cried the captain, gaily, when she had drunk the water.
"You're feeling better, I think, eh, Little Mother Coralie?"
"Much better."
"Capital.
But that was a bad minute we went through just now!
What an adventure!
We shall have to talk it all over and get some light on it, sha'n't we?
Meanwhile, my lads, pay your respects to Little Mother Coralie.
Eh, my fine fellows, who would have thought, when she was coddling you and patting your pillows for your fat pates to sink into, that one day we should be taking care of her and that the children would be coddling their little mother?"
They all pressed round her, the one-armed and the one-legged, the crippled and the sick, all glad to see her.
And she shook hands with them affectionately:

"Well, Ribrac, how's that leg of yours?"
"I don't feel it any longer, Little Mother Coralie."
"And you, Vatinel?
That wound in your shoulder?"
"Not a sign of it, Little Mother Coralie."
"And you, Poulard?
And you, Jorisse?"
Her emotion increased at seeing them again, the men whom she called her children.
And Patrice Belval exclaimed:

"Ah, Little Mother Coralie, now you're crying!
Little mother, little mother, that's how you captured all our hearts.
When we were trying our hardest not to call out, on our bed of pain, we used to see your eyes filling with great tears.
Little Mother Coralie was weeping over her children.
Then we clenched our teeth still firmer."
"And I used to cry still more," she said, "just because you were afraid of hurting me."
"And to-day you're at it again.
No, you are too soft-hearted!
You love us.
We love you.
There's nothing to cry about in that.
Come, Little Mother Coralie, a smile.
.
. .
And, I say, here's Ya-Bon coming; and Ya-Bon always laughs."
She rose suddenly:

"Do you think he can have overtaken one of the two men?"
"Do I think so?
I told Ya-Bon to bring one back by the neck.
He won't fail.
I'm only afraid of one thing.
.
. ."
They had gone towards the hall.
The Senegalese was already on the steps.
With his right hand he was clutching the neck of a man, of a limp rag, rather, which he seemed to be carrying at arm's length, like a dancing-doll.
"Drop him," said the captain.
Ya-Bon loosened his fingers.
The man fell on the flags in the hall.
"That's what I feared," muttered the officer.
"Ya-Bon has only his right hand; but, when that hand holds any one by the throat, it's a miracle if it doesn't strangle him.
The Boches know something about it."
Ya-Bon was a sort of colossus, the color of gleaming coal, with a woolly head and a few curly hairs on his chin, with an empty sleeve fastened to his left shoulder and two medals pinned to his jacket.
Ya-Bon had had one cheek, one side of his jaw, half his mouth and the whole of his palate smashed by a splinter of shell.
The other half of that mouth was split to the ear in a laugh which never seemed to cease and which was all the more surprising because the wounded portion of the face, patched up as best it could be and covered with a grafted skin, remained impassive.
Moreover, Ya-Bon had lost his power of speech.
The most that he could do was to emit a sequence of indistinct grunts in which his nickname of Ya-Bon was everlastingly repeated.
He uttered it once more with a satisfied air, glancing by turns at his master and his victim, like a good sporting-dog standing over the bird which he has retrieved.
"Good," said the officer.
"But, next time, go to work more gently."
He bent over the man, felt his heart and, on seeing that he had only fainted, asked the nurse:

"Do you know him?"
"No," she said.
"Are you sure?
Have you never seen that head anywhere?"
It was a very big head, with black hair, plastered down with grease, and a thick beard.
The man's clothes, which were of dark-blue serge and well-cut, showed him to be in easy circumstances.
"Never .
. .
never," the girl declared.
Captain Belval searched the man's pockets.
They contained no papers.
"Very well," he said, rising to his feet, "we will wait till he wakes up and question him then.
Ya-Bon, tie up his arms and legs and stay here, in the hall.
The rest of you fellows, go back to the home: it's time you were indoors.
I have my key.
Say good-by to Little Mother Coralie and trot off."
And, when good-by had been said, he pushed them outside, came back to the nurse, led her into the drawing-room and said:

"Now let's talk, Little Mother Coralie.
First of all, before we try to explain things, listen to me.
It won't take long."
They were sitting before the merrily blazing fire.
Patrice Belval slipped a hassock under Little Mother Coralie's feet, put out a light that seemed to worry her and, when he felt certain that she was comfortable, began:

"As you know, Little Mother Coralie, I left the hospital a week ago and am staying on the Boulevard Maillot, at Neuilly, in the home reserved for the convalescent patients of the hospital.
I sleep there at night and have my wounds dressed in the morning.
The rest of the time I spend in loafing: I stroll about, lunch and dine where the mood takes me and go and call on my friends.
Well, this morning I was waiting for one of them in a big café-restaurant on the boulevard, when I overheard the end of a conversation.
.
. .
But I must tell you that the place is divided into two by a partition standing about six feet high, with the customers of the café on one side and those of the restaurant on the other.
I was all by myself in the restaurant; and the two men, who had their backs turned to me and who in any case were out of sight, probably thought that there was no one there at all, for they were speaking rather louder than they need have done, considering the sentences which I overheard .
. .
and which I afterwards wrote down in my little note-book."
He took the note-book from his pocket and went on:

"These sentences, which caught my attention for reasons which you will understand presently, were preceded by some others in which there was a reference to sparks, to a shower of sparks that had already occurred twice before the war, a sort of night signal for the possible repetition of which they proposed to watch, so that they might act quickly as soon as it appeared.
Does none of this tell you anything?"
"No.
Why?"
"You shall see.
By the way, I forgot to tell you that the two were talking English, quite correctly, but with an accent which assured me that neither of them was an Englishman.
Here is what they said, faithfully translated: 'To finish up, therefore,' said one, 'everything is decided.
You and he will be at the appointed place at a little before seven this evening.'
'We shall be there, colonel.
We have engaged our taxi.'
'Good.
Remember that the little woman leaves her hospital at seven o'clock.'
'Have no fear.
There can't be any mistake, because she always goes the same way, down the Rue Pierre-Charron.'
'And your whole plan is settled?'
'In every particular.
The thing will happen in the square at the end of the Rue de Chaillot.
Even granting that there may be people about, they will have no time to rescue her, for we shall act too quickly.'
'Are you certain of your driver?'
'I am certain that we shall pay him enough to secure his obedience.
That's all we want.'
'Capital.
I'll wait for you at the place you know of, in a motor-car.
You'll hand the little woman over to me.
From that moment, we shall be masters of the situation.'
'And you of the little woman, colonel, which isn't bad for you, for she's deucedly pretty.'
'Deucedly, as you say.
I've known her a long time by sight; and, upon my word.
.
. .'
The two began to laugh coarsely and called for their bill.
I at once got up and went to the door on the boulevard, but only one of them came out by that door, a man with a big drooping mustache and a gray felt hat.
The other had left by the door in the street round the corner.
There was only one taxi in the road.
The man took it and I had to give up all hope of following him.
Only .
. .
only, as I knew that you left the hospital at seven o'clock every evening and that you went along the Rue Pierre-Charron, I was justified, wasn't I, in believing .
. . ?"
The captain stopped.
The girl reflected, with a thoughtful air.
Presently she asked:

"Why didn't you warn me?"
"Warn you!"
he exclaimed.
"And, if, after all, it wasn't you?
Why alarm you?
And, if, on the other hand, it was you, why put you on your guard?
After the attempt had failed, your enemies would have laid another trap for you; and we, not knowing of it, would have been unable to prevent it.
No, the best thing was to accept the fight.
I enrolled a little band of your former patients who were being treated at the home; and, as the friend whom I was expecting to meet happened to live in the square, here, in this house, I asked him to place his rooms at my disposal from six to nine o'clock.
That's what I did, Little Mother Coralie.
And now that you know as much as I do, what do you think of it?"
She gave him her hand:

"I think you have saved me from an unknown danger that looks like a very great one; and I thank you."
"No, no," he said, "I can accept no thanks.
I was so glad to have succeeded!
What I want to know is your opinion of the business itself?"
Without a second's hesitation, she replied:

"I have none.
Not a word, not an incident, in all that you have told me, suggests the least idea to me."
"You have no enemies, to your knowledge?"
"Personally, no."
"What about that man to whom your two assailants were to hand you over and who says that he knows you?"
"Doesn't every woman," she said, with a slight blush, "come across men who pursue her more or less openly?
I can't tell who it is."
The captain was silent for a while and then went on:

"When all is said, our only hope of clearing up the matter lies in questioning our prisoner.
If he refuses to answer, I shall hand him over to the police, who will know how to get to the bottom of the business."
The girl gave a start:

"The police?"
"Well, of course.
What would you have me do with the fellow?
He doesn't belong to me.
He belongs to the police."
"No, no, no!"
she exclaimed, excitedly.
"Not on any account!
What, have my life gone into?
.
. .
Have to appear before the magistrate?
.
. .
Have my name mixed up in all this?
.
. ."
"And yet, Little Mother Coralie, I can't .
. ."
"Oh, I beg, I beseech you, as my friend, find some way out of it, but don't have me talked about!
I don't want to be talked about!"
The captain looked at her, somewhat surprised to see her in such a state of agitation, and said:

"You sha'n't be talked about, Little Mother Coralie, I promise you."
"Then what will you do with that man?"
"Well," he said, with a laugh, "I shall begin by asking him politely if he will condescend to answer my questions; then thank him for his civil behavior to you; and lastly beg him to be good enough to go away."
He rose:

"Do you wish to see him, Little Mother Coralie?"
"No," she said, "I am so tired!
If you don't want me, question him by yourself.
You can tell me about it afterwards.
.
. ."
She seemed quite exhausted by all this fresh excitement and strain, added to all those which already rendered her life as a nurse so hard.
The captain did not insist and went out, closing the door of the drawing-room after him.
She heard him saying:

"Well, Ya-Bon, have you kept a good watch!
No news?
And how's your prisoner?
.
. .
Ah, there you are, my fine fellow!
Have you got your breath back?
Oh, I know Ya-Bon's hand is a bit heavy!
.
. .
What's this?
Won't you answer?
.
. .
Hallo, what's happened?
Hanged if I don't think .
. ."
A cry escaped him.
The girl ran to the hall.
She met the captain, who tried to bar her way.
"Don't come," he said, in great agitation.
"What's the use!"
"But you're hurt!"
she exclaimed.
"I?"
"There's blood on your shirt-cuff."
"So there is, but it's nothing: it's the man's blood that must have stained me."
"Then he was wounded?"
"Yes, or at least his mouth was bleeding.
Some blood-vessel .
. ."
"Why, surely Ya-Bon didn't grip as hard as that?"
"It wasn't Ya-Bon."
"Then who was it?"
"His accomplices."
"Did they come back?"
"Yes; and they've strangled him."
"But it's not possible!"
She pushed by and went towards the prisoner.
He did not move.
His face had the pallor of death.
Round his neck was a red-silk string, twisted very thin and with a buckle at either end.
CHAPTER II

RIGHT HAND AND LEFT LEG

"One rogue less in the world, Little Mother Coralie!"
cried Patrice Belval, after he had led the girl back to the drawing-room and made a rapid investigation with Ya-Bon.
"Remember his name--I found it engraved on his watch--Mustapha Rovalaïof, the name of a rogue!"
He spoke gaily, with no emotion in his voice, and continued, as he walked up and down the room:

"You and I, Little Mother Coralie, who have witnessed so many tragedies and seen so many good fellows die, need not waste tears over the death of Mustapha Rovalaïof or his murder by his accomplices.
Not even a funeral oration, eh?
Ya-Bon has taken him under his arm, waited until the square was clear and carried him to the Rue Brignoles, with orders to fling the gentleman over the railings into the garden of the Musée Galliéra.
The railings are high.
But Ya-Bon's right hand knows no obstacles.
And so, Little Mother Coralie, the matter is buried.
You won't be talked about; and, this time, I claim a word of thanks."
He stopped to laugh:

"A word of thanks, but no compliments.
By Jove, I don't make much of a warder!
It was clever the way those beggars snatched my prisoner.
Why didn't I foresee that your other assailant, the man in the gray-felt hat, would go and tell the third, who was waiting in his motor, and that they would both come back together to rescue their companion?
And they came back.
And, while you and I were chatting, they must have forced the servants' entrance, passed through the kitchen, come to the little door between the pantry and the hall and pushed it open.
There, close by them, lay their man, still unconscious and firmly bound, on his sofa.
What were they to do?
It was impossible to get him out of the hall without alarming Ya-Bon.
And yet, if they didn't release him, he would speak, give away his accomplices and ruin a carefully prepared plan.
So one of the two must have leant forward stealthily, put out his arm, thrown his string round that throat which Ya-Bon had already handled pretty roughly, gathered the buckles at the two ends and pulled, pulled, quietly, until death came.
Not a sound.
Not a sigh.
The whole operation performed in silence.
We come, we kill and we go away.
Good-night.
The trick is done and our friend won't talk."
Captain Belval's merriment increased:

"Our friend won't talk," he repeated, "and the police, when they find his body to-morrow morning inside a railed garden, won't understand a word of the business.
Nor we either, Little Mother Coralie; and we shall never know why those men tried to kidnap you.
It's only too true!
I may not be up to much as a warder, but I'm beneath contempt as a detective!"
He continued to walk up and down the room.
The fact that his leg or rather his calf had been amputated seemed hardly to inconvenience him; and, as the joints of the knee and thighbone had retained their mobility, there was at most a certain want of rhythm in the action of his hips and shoulders.
Moreover, his tall figure tended to correct this lameness, which was reduced to insignificant proportions by the ease of his movements and the indifference with which he appeared to accept it.
He had an open countenance, rather dark in color, burnt by the sun and tanned by the weather, with an expression that was frank, cheerful and often bantering.
He must have been between twenty-eight and thirty.
His manner suggested that of the officers of the First Empire, to whom their life in camp imparted a special air which they subsequently brought into the ladies' drawing-rooms.
He stopped to look at Coralie, whose shapely profile stood out against the gleams from the fireplace.
Then he came and sat beside her:

"I know nothing about you," he said softly.
"At the hospital the doctors and nurses call you Madame Coralie.
Your patients prefer to say Little Mother.
What is your married or your maiden name?
Have you a husband or are you a widow?
Where do you live?
Nobody knows.
You arrive every day at the same time and you go away by the same street.
Sometimes an old serving-man, with long gray hair and a bristly beard, with a comforter round his neck and a pair of yellow spectacles on his nose, brings you or fetches you.
Sometimes also he waits for you, always sitting on the same chair in the covered yard.
He has been asked questions, but he never gives an answer.
I know only one thing, therefore, about you, which is that you are adorably good and kind and that you are also--I may say it, may I not?--adorably beautiful.
And it is perhaps, Little Mother Coralie, because I know nothing about your life that I imagine it so mysterious, and, in some way, so sad.
You give the impression of living amid sorrow and anxiety; the feeling that you are all alone.
There is no one who devotes himself to making you happy and taking care of you.
So I thought--I have long thought and waited for an opportunity of telling you--I thought that you must need a friend, a brother, who would advise and protect you.
Am I not right, Little Mother Coralie?"
As he went on, Coralie seemed to shrink into herself and to place a greater distance between them, as though she did not wish him to penetrate those secret regions of which he spoke.
"No," she murmured, "you are mistaken.
My life is quite simple.
I do not need to be defended."
"You do not need to be defended!"
he cried, with increasing animation.
"What about those men who tried to kidnap you?
That plot hatched against you?
That plot which your assailants are so afraid to see discovered that they go to the length of killing the one who allowed himself to be caught?
Is that nothing?
Is it mere delusion on my part when I say that you are surrounded by dangers, that you have enemies who stick at nothing, that you have to be defended against their attempts and that, if you decline the offer of my assistance, I .
. .
Well, I .
. . ?"
She persisted in her silence, showed herself more and more distant, almost hostile.
The officer struck the marble mantelpiece with his fist, and, bending over her, finished his sentence in a determined tone:

"Well, if you decline the offer of my assistance, I shall force it on you."
She shook her head.
"I shall force it on you," he repeated, firmly.
"It is my duty and my right."
"No," she said, in an undertone.
"My absolute right," said Captain Belval, "for a reason which outweighs all the others and makes it unnecessary for me even to consult you."
"What do you mean?"
"I love you."
He brought out the words plainly, not like a lover venturing on a timid declaration, but like a man proud of the sentiment that he feels and happy to proclaim it.
She lowered her eyes and blushed; and he cried, exultantly:

"You can take it, Little Mother, from me.
No impassioned outbursts, no sighs, no waving of the arms, no clapping of the hands.
Just three little words, which I tell you without going on my knees.
And it's the easier for me because you know it.
Yes, Madame Coralie, it's all very well to look so shy, but you know my love for you and you've known it as long as I have.
We saw it together take birth when your dear little hands touched my battered head.
The others used to torture me.
With you, it was nothing but caresses.
So was the pity in your eyes and the tears that fell because I was in pain.
But can any one see you without loving you?
Your seven patients who were here just now are all in love with you, Little Mother Coralie.
Ya-Bon worships the ground you walk on.
Only they are privates.
They cannot speak.
I am an officer; and I speak without hesitation or embarrassment, believe me."
Coralie had put her hands to her burning cheeks and sat silent, bending forward.
"You understand what I mean, don't you," he went on, in a voice that rang, "when I say that I speak without hesitation or embarrassment?
If I had been before the war what I am now, a maimed man, I should not have had the same assurance and I should have declared my love for you humbly and begged your pardon for my boldness.
But now!
.
. .
Believe me, Little Mother Coralie, when I sit here face to face with the woman I adore, I do not think of my infirmity.
Not for a moment do I feel the impression that I can appear ridiculous or presumptuous in your eyes."
He stopped, as though to take breath, and then, rising, went on:

"And it must needs be so.
People will have to understand that those who have been maimed in this war do not look upon themselves as outcasts, lame ducks, or lepers, but as absolutely normal men.
Yes, normal!
One leg short?
What about it?
Does that rob a man of his brain or heart?
Then, because the war has deprived me of a leg, or an arm, or even both legs or both arms, I have no longer the right to love a woman save at the risk of meeting with a rebuff or imagining that she pities me?
Pity!
But we don't want the woman to pity us, nor to make an effort to love us, nor even to think that she is doing a charity because she treats us kindly.
What we demand, from women and from the world at large, from those whom we meet in the street and from those who belong to the same set as ourselves, is absolute equality with the rest, who have been saved from our fate by their lucky stars or their cowardice."
The captain once more struck the mantelpiece:

"Yes, absolute equality!
We all of us, whether we have lost a leg or an arm, whether blind in one eye or two, whether crippled or deformed, claim to be just as good, physically and morally, as any one you please; and perhaps better.
What!
Shall men who have used their legs to rush upon the enemy be outdistanced in life, because they no longer have those legs, by men who have sat and warmed their toes at an office-fire?
What nonsense!
We want our place in the sun as well as the others.
It is our due; and we shall know how to get it and keep it.
There is no happiness to which we are not entitled and no work for which we are not capable with a little exercise and training.
Ya-Bon's right hand is already worth any pair of hands in the wide world; and Captain Belval's left leg allows him to do his five miles an hour if he pleases."
He began to laugh:

"Right hand and left leg; left hand and right leg: what does it matter which we have saved, if we know how to use it?
In what respect have we fallen off?
Whether it's a question of obtaining a position or perpetuating our race, are we not as good as we were?
And perhaps even better.
I venture to say that the children which we shall give to the country will be just as well-built as ever, with arms and legs and the rest .
. .
not to mention a mighty legacy of pluck and spirit.
That's what we claim, Little Mother Coralie.
We refuse to admit that our wooden legs keep us back or that we cannot stand as upright on our crutches as on legs of flesh and bone.
We do not consider that devotion to us is any sacrifice or that it's necessary to talk of heroism when a girl has the honor to marry a blind soldier!
Once more, we are not creatures outside the pale.
We have not fallen off in any way whatever; and this is a truth before which everybody will bow for the next two or three generations.
You can understand that, in a country like France, when maimed men are to be met by the hundred thousand, the conception of what makes a perfect man will no longer be as hard and fast as it was.
In the new form of humanity which is preparing, there will be men with two arms and men with only one, just as there are fair men and dark, bearded men and clean-shaven.
And it will all seem quite natural.
And every one will lead the life he pleases, without needing to be complete in every limb.
And, as my life is wrapped up in you, Little Mother Coralie, and as my happiness depends on you, I thought I would wait no longer before making you my little speech.
.
. .
Well!
That's finished!
I have plenty more to say on the subject, but it can't all be said in a day, can it?
.
. ."
He broke off, thrown out of his stride after all by Coralie's silence.
She had not stirred since the first words of love that he uttered.
Her hands had sought her forehead; and her shoulders were shaking slightly.
He stooped and, with infinite gentleness, drawing aside the slender fingers, uncovered her beautiful face:

"Why are you crying, Little Mother Coralie?"
He was calling her _tu_ now, but she did not mind.
Between a man and the woman who has bent over his wounds relations of a special kind arise; and Captain Belval in particular had those rather familiar, but still respectful, ways at which it seems impossible to take offence.
"Have _I_ made you cry?"
he asked.
"No," she said, in a low voice, "it's all of you who upset me.
It's your cheerfulness, your pride, your way not of submitting to fate, but mastering it.
The humblest of you raises himself above his nature without an effort; and I know nothing finer or more touching than that indifference."
He sat down beside her:

"Then you're not angry with me for saying .
. .
what I said?"
"Angry with you?"
she replied, pretending to mistake his meaning.
"Why, every woman thinks as you do.
If women, in bestowing their affection, had to choose among the men returning from the war, the choice I am sure would be in favor of those who have suffered most cruelly."
He shook his head:

"You see, I am asking for something more than affection and a more definite answer to what I said.
Shall I remind you of my words?"
"No."
"Then your answer .
. . ?"
"My answer, dear friend, is that you must not speak those words again."
He put on a solemn air:

"You forbid me?"
"I do."
"In that case, I swear to say nothing more until I see you again."
"You will not see me again," she murmured.
Captain Belval was greatly amused at this:

"I say, I say!
And why sha'n't I see you again, Little Mother Coralie?"
"Because I don't wish it."
"And your reason, please?"
"My reason?"
She turned her eyes to him and said, slowly:

"I am married."
Belval seemed in no way disconcerted by this news.
On the contrary, he said, in the calmest of tones:

"Well, you must marry again!
No doubt your husband is an old man and you do not love him.
He will therefore understand that, as you have some one in love with you .
. ."
"Don't jest, please."
He caught hold of her hand, just as she was rising to go:

"You are right, Little Mother Coralie, and I apologize for not adopting a more serious manner to speak to you of very serious things.
It's a question of our two lives.
I am profoundly convinced that they are moving towards each other and that you are powerless to restrain them.
That is why your answer is beside the point.
I ask nothing of you.
I expect everything from fate.
It is fate that will bring us together."
"No," she said.
"Yes," he declared, "that is how things will happen."
"It is not.
They will not and shall not happen like that.
You must give me your word of honor not to try to see me again nor even to learn my name.
I might have granted more if you had been content to remain friends.
The confession which you have made sets a barrier between us.
I want nobody in my life .
. .
nobody!"
She made this declaration with a certain vehemence and at the same time tried to release her arm from his grasp.
Patrice Belval resisted her efforts and said:

"You are wrong.
.
. .
You have no right to expose yourself to danger like this.
.
. .
Please reflect .
. ."
She pushed him away.
As she did so, she knocked off the mantelpiece a little bag which she had placed there.
It fell on the carpet and opened.
Two or three things escaped, and she picked them up, while Patrice Belval knelt down on the floor to help her:

"Here," he said, "you've missed this."
It was a little case in plaited straw, which had also come open; the beads of a rosary protruded from it.
They both stood up in silence.
Captain Belval examined the rosary.
"What a curious coincidence!"
he muttered.
"These amethyst beads!
This old-fashioned gold filigree setting!
.
. .
It's strange to find the same materials and the same workmanship.
.
. ."
He gave a start, and it was so marked that Coralie asked:

"Why, what's the matter?"
He was holding in his fingers a bead larger than most of the others, forming a link between the string of tens and the shorter prayer-chain.
And this bead was broken half-way across, almost level with the gold setting which held it.
"The coincidence," he said, "is so inconceivable that I hardly dare .
. .
And yet the face can be verified at once.
But first, one question: who gave you this rosary?"
"Nobody gave it to me.
I've always had it."
"But it must have belonged to somebody before?"
"To my mother, I suppose."
"Your mother?"
"I expect so, in the same way as the different jewels which she left me."
"Is your mother dead?"
"Yes, she died when I was four years old.
I have only the vaguest recollection of her.
But what has all this to do with a rosary?"
"It's because of this," he said.
"Because of this amethyst bead broken in two."
He undid his jacket and took his watch from his waistcoat-pocket.
It had a number of trinkets fastened to it by a little leather and silver strap.
One of these trinkets consisted of the half of an amethyst bead, also broken across, also held in a filigree setting.
The original size of the two beads seemed to be identical.
The two amethysts were of the same color and contained in the same filigree.
Coralie and Belval looked at each other anxiously.
She stammered:

"It's only an accident, nothing else .
. ."
"I agree," he said.
"But, supposing these two halves fit each other exactly .
. ."
"It's impossible," she said, herself frightened at the thought of the simple little act needed for the indisputable proof.
The officer, however, decided upon that act.
He brought his right hand, which held the rosary-bead, and his left, which held the trinket, together.
The hands hesitated, felt about and stopped.
The contact was made.
The projections and indentations of the broken stones corresponded precisely.
Each protruding part found a space to fit it.
The two half amethysts were the two halves of the same amethyst.
When joined, they formed one and the same bead.
There was a long pause, laden with excitement and mystery.
Then, speaking in a low voice:

"I do not know either exactly where this trinket comes from," Captain Belval said.
"Ever since I was a child, I used to see it among other things of trifling value which I kept in a cardboard box: watch-keys, old rings, old-fashioned seals.
I picked out these trinkets from among them two or three years ago.
Where does this one come from?
I don't know.
But what I do know .
. ."
He had separated the two pieces and, examining them carefully, concluded:

"What I do know, beyond a doubt, is that the largest bead in this rosary came off one day and broke; and that the other, with its setting, went to form the trinket which I now have.
You and I therefore possess the two halves of a thing which somebody else possessed twenty years ago."
He went up to her and, in the same low and rather serious voice, said:

"You protested just now when I declared my faith in destiny and my certainty that events were leading us towards each other.
Do you still deny it?
For, after all, this is either an accident so extraordinary that we have no right to admit it or an actual fact which proves that our two lives have already touched in the past at some mysterious point and that they will meet again in the future, never to part.
And that is why, without waiting for the perhaps distant future, I offer you to-day, when danger hangs over you, the support of my friendship.
Observe that I am no longer speaking of love but only of friendship.
Do you accept?"
She was nonplussed and so much perturbed by that miracle of the two broken amethysts, fitting each other exactly, that she appeared not to hear Belval's voice.
"Do you accept?"
he repeated.
After a moment she replied:

"No."
"Then the proof which destiny has given you of its wishes does not satisfy you?"
he said, good-humoredly.
"We must not see each other again," she declared.
"Very well.
I will leave it to chance.
It will not be for long.
Meanwhile, I promise to make no effort to see you."
"Nor to find out my name?"
"Yes, I promise you."
"Good-by," she said, giving him her hand.
"_Au revoir_," he answered.
She moved away.
When she reached the door, she seemed to hesitate.
He was standing motionless by the chimney.
Once more she said:

"Good-by."
"_Au revoir_, Little Mother Coralie."
Then she went out.
Only when the street-door had closed behind her did Captain Belval go to one of the windows.
He saw Coralie passing through the trees, looking quite small in the surrounding darkness.
He felt a pang at his heart.
Would he ever see her again?
"Shall I?
Rather!"
he exclaimed.
"Why, to-morrow perhaps.
Am I not the favorite of the gods?"
And, taking his stick, he set off, as he said, with his wooden leg foremost.
That evening, after dining at the nearest restaurant, Captain Belval went to Neuilly.
The home run in connection with the hospital was a pleasant villa on the Boulevard Maillot, looking out on the Bois de Boulogne.
Discipline was not too strictly enforced.
The captain could come in at any hour of the night; and the man easily obtained leave from the matron.
"Is Ya-Bon there?"
he asked this lady.
"Yes, he's playing cards with his sweetheart."
"He has the right to love and be loved," he said.
"Any letters for me?"
"No, only a parcel."
"From whom?"
"A commissionaire brought it and just said that it was 'for Captain Belval.'
I put it in your room."
The officer went up to his bedroom on the top floor and saw the parcel, done up in paper and string, on the table.
He opened it and discovered a box.
The box contained a key, a large, rusty key, of a shape and manufacture that were obviously old.
What could it all mean?
There was no address on the box and no mark.
He presumed that there was some mistake which would come to light of itself; and he slipped the key into his pocket.
"Enough riddles for one day," he thought.
"Let's go to bed."
But when he went to the window to draw the curtains he saw, across the trees of the Bois, a cascade of sparks which spread to some distance in the dense blackness of the night.
And he remembered the conversation which he had overheard in the restaurant and the rain of sparks mentioned by the men who were plotting to kidnap Little Mother Coralie.
.
. .
CHAPTER III

THE RUSTY KEY

When Patrice Belval was eight years old he was sent from Paris, where he had lived till then, to a French boarding-school in London.
Here he remained for ten years.
At first he used to hear from his father weekly.
Then, one day, the head-master told him that he was an orphan, that provision had been made for the cost of his education and that, on his majority, he would receive through an English solicitor his paternal inheritance, amounting to some eight thousand pounds.
Two hundred thousand francs could never be enough for a young man who soon proved himself to possess expensive tastes and who, when sent to Algeria to perform his military service, found means to run up twenty thousand francs of debts before coming into his money.
He therefore started by squandering his patrimony and, having done so, settled down to work.
Endowed with an active temperament and an ingenious brain, possessing no special vocation, but capable of anything that calls for initiative and resolution, full of ideas, with both the will and the knowledge to carry out an enterprise, he inspired confidence in others, found capital as he needed it and started one venture after another, including electrical schemes, the purchase of rivers and waterfalls, the organization of motor services in the colonies, of steamship lines and of mining companies.
In a few years he had floated a dozen of such enterprises, all of which succeeded.
The war came to him as a wonderful adventure.
He flung himself into it with heart and soul.
As a sergeant in a colonial regiment, he won his lieutenant's stripes on the Marne.
He was wounded in the calf on the 15th of September and had it amputated the same day.
Two months after, by some mysterious wirepulling, cripple though he was, he began to go up as observer in the aeroplane of one of our best pilots.
A shrapnel-shell put an end to the exploits of both heroes on the 10th of January.
This time, Captain Belval, suffering from a serious wound in the head, was discharged and sent to the hospital in the Avenue des Champs-Élysées.
About the same period, the lady whom he was to call Little Mother Coralie also entered the hospital as a nurse.
There he was trepanned.
The operation was successful, but complications remained.
He suffered a good deal of pain, though he never uttered a complaint and, in fact, with his own good-humor kept up the spirits of his companions in misfortune, all of whom were devoted to him.
He made them laugh, consoled them and stimulated them with his cheeriness and his constant happy manner of facing the worst positions.
Not one of them is ever likely to forget the way in which he received a manufacturer who called to sell him a mechanical leg:

"Aha, a mechanical leg!
And what for, sir?
To take in people, I suppose, so that they may not notice that I've lost a bit of mine?
Then you consider, sir, that it's a blemish to have your leg amputated, and that I, a French officer, ought to hide it as a disgrace?"
"Not at all, captain.
Still .
. ."
"And what's the price of that apparatus of yours?"
"Five hundred francs."
"Five hundred francs!
And you think me capable of spending five hundred francs on a mechanical leg, when there are a hundred thousand poor devils who have been wounded as I have and who will have to go on showing their wooden stumps?"
The men sitting within hearing reveled with delight.
Little Mother Coralie herself listened with a smile.
And what would Patrice Belval not have given for a smile from Little Mother Coralie?
As he told her, he had fallen in love with her from the first, touched by her appealing beauty, her artless grace, her soft eyes, her gentle soul, which seemed to bend over the patients and to fondle them like a soothing caress.
From the very first, the charm of her stole into his being and at the same time compassed it about.
Her voice gave him new life.
She bewitched him with the glance of her eyes and with her fragrant presence.
And yet, while yielding to the empire of this love, he had an immense craving to devote himself to and to place his strength at the service of this delicate little creature, whom he felt to be surrounded with danger.
And now events were proving that he was right, the danger was taking definite shape and he had had the happiness to snatch Coralie from the grasp of her enemies.
He rejoiced at the result of the first battle, but could not look upon it as over.
The attacks were bound to be repeated.
And even now was he not entitled to ask himself if there was not some close connection between the plot prepared against Coralie that morning and the sort of signal given by the shower of sparks?
Did the two facts announced by the speakers at the restaurant not form part of the same suspicious machination?
The sparks continued to glitter in the distance.
So far as Patrice Belval could judge, they came from the riverside, at some spot between two extreme points which might be the Trocadéro on the left and the Gare de Passy on the right.
"A mile or two at most, as the crow flies," he said to himself.
"Why not go there?
We'll soon see."
A faint light filtered through the key-hole of a door on the second floor.
It was Ya-Bon's room; and the matron had told him that Ya-Bon was playing cards with his sweetheart.
He walked in.
Ya-Bon was no longer playing.
He had fallen asleep in an armchair, in front of the outspread cards, and on the pinned-back sleeve hanging from his left shoulder lay the head of a woman, an appallingly common head, with lips as thick as Ya-Bon's, revealing a set of black teeth, and with a yellow, greasy skin that seemed soaked in oil.
It was Angèle, the kitchen-maid, Ya-Bon's sweetheart.
She snored aloud.
Patrice looked at them contentedly.
The sight confirmed the truth of his theories.
If Ya-Bon could find some one to care for him, might not the most sadly mutilated heroes aspire likewise to all the joys of love?
He touched the Senegalese on the shoulder.
Ya-Bon woke up and smiled, or rather, divining the presence of his captain, smiled even before he woke.
"I want you, Ya-Bon."
Ya-Bon uttered a grunt of pleasure and gave a push to Angèle, who fell over on the table and went on snoring.
Coming out of the house, Patrice saw no more sparks.
They were hidden behind the trees.
He walked along the boulevard and, to save time, went by the Ceinture railway to the Avenue Henri-Martin.
Here he turned down the Rue de la Tour, which runs to Passy.
On the way he kept talking to Ya-Bon about what he had in his mind, though he well knew that the negro did not understand much of what he said.
But this was a habit with him.
Ya-Bon, first his comrade-in-arms and then his orderly, was as devoted to him as a dog.
He had lost a limb on the same day as his officer and was wounded in the head on the same day; he believed himself destined to undergo the same experiences throughout; and he rejoiced at having been twice wounded just as he would have rejoiced at dying at the same time as Captain Belval.
On his side, the captain rewarded this humble, dumb devotion by unbending genially to his companion; he treated him with an ironical and sometimes impatient humor which heightened the negro's love for him.
Ya-Bon played the part of the passive confidant who is consulted without being regarded and who is made to bear the brunt of his interlocutor's hasty temper.
"What do you think of all this, Master Ya-Bon?"
asked the captain, walking arm-in-arm with him.
"I have an idea that it's all part of the same business.
Do you think so too?"
Ya-Bon had two grunts, one of which meant yes, the other no.
He grunted out:

"Yes."
"So there's no doubt about it," the officer declared, "and we must admit that Little Mother Coralie is threatened with a fresh danger.
Is that so?"
"Yes," grunted Ya-Bon, who always approved, on principle.
"Very well.
It now remains to be seen what that shower of sparks means.
I thought for a moment that, as we had our first visit from the Zeppelins a week ago .
. .
are you listening to me?"
"Yes."
"I thought that it was a treacherous signal with a view to a second Zeppelin visit .
. ."
"Yes."
"No, you idiot, it's not yes.
How could it be a Zeppelin signal when, according to the conversation which I overheard, the signal had already been given twice before the war.
Besides, is it really a signal?"
"No."
"How do you mean, no?
What else could it be, you silly ass?
You'd do better to hold your tongue and listen to me, all the more as you don't even know what it's all about.
.
. .
No more do I, for that matter, and I confess that I'm at an utter loss.
Lord, it's a complicated business, and I'm not much of a hand at solving these problems."
Patrice Belval was even more perplexed when he came to the bottom of the Rue de la Tour.
There were several roads in front of him, and he did not know which to take.
Moreover, though he was in the middle of Passy, not a spark shone in the dark sky.
"It's finished, I expect," he said, "and we've had our trouble for nothing.
It's your fault, Ya-Bon.
If you hadn't made me lose precious moments in snatching you from the arms of your beloved we should have arrived in time.
I admit Angèle's charms, but, after all .
. ."
He took his bearings, feeling more and more undecided.
The expedition undertaken on chance and with insufficient information was certainly yielding no results; and he was thinking of abandoning it when a closed private car came out of the Rue Franklin, from the direction of the Trocadéro, and some one inside shouted through the speaking-tube:

"Bear to the left .
. .
and then straight on, till I stop you."
Now it appeared to Captain Belval that this voice had the same foreign inflection as one of those which he had heard that morning at the restaurant.
"Can it be the beggar in the gray hat," he muttered, "one of those who tried to carry off Little Mother Coralie?"
"Yes," grunted Ya-Bon.
"Yes.
The signal of the sparks explains his presence in these parts.
We mustn't lose sight of this track.
Off with you, Ya-Bon."
But there was no need for Ya-Bon to hurry.
The car had gone down the Rue Raynouard, and Belval himself arrived just as it was stopping three or four hundred yards from the turning, in front of a large carriage-entrance on the left-hand side.
Five men alighted.
One of them rang.
Thirty or forty seconds passed.
Then Patrice heard the bell tinkle a second time.
The five men waited, standing packed close together on the pavement.
At last, after a third ring, a small wicket contrived in one of the folding-doors was opened.
There was a pause and some argument.
Whoever had opened the wicket appeared to be asking for explanations.
But suddenly two of the men bore heavily on the folding-door, which gave way before their thrust and let the whole gang through.
There was a loud noise as the door slammed to.
Captain Belval at once studied his surroundings.
The Rue Raynouard is an old country-road which at one time used to wind among the houses and gardens of the village of Passy, on the side of the hills bathed by the Seine.
In certain places, which unfortunately are becoming more and more rare, it has retained a provincial aspect.
It is skirted by old properties.
Old houses stand hidden amidst the trees: that in which Balzac lived has been piously preserved.
It was in this street that the mysterious garden lay where Arsène Lupin discovered a farmer-general's diamonds hidden in a crack of an old sundial.
[1]

[Footnote 1: _The Confessions of Arsène Lupin._ By Maurice Leblanc.
Translated by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos.
III.
_The Sign of the Shadow._]

The car was still standing outside the house into which the five men had forced their way; and this prevented Patrice Belval from coming nearer.
It was built in continuation of a wall and seemed to be one of the private mansions dating back to the First Empire.
It had a very long front with two rows of round windows, protected by gratings on the ground-floor and solid shutters on the story above.
There was another building farther down, forming a separate wing.
"There's nothing to be done on this side," said the captain.
"It's as impregnable as a feudal stronghold.
Let's look elsewhere."
From the Rue Raynouard, narrow lanes, which used to divide the old properties, make their way down to the river.
One of them skirted the wall that preceded the house.
Belval turned down it with Ya-Bon.
It was constructed of ugly pointed pebbles, was broken into steps and faintly lighted by the gleam of a street-lamp.
"Lend me a hand, Ya-Bon.
The wall is too high.
But perhaps with the aid of the lamp-post .
. ."
Assisted by the negro, he hoisted himself to the lamp and was stretching out one of his hands when he noticed that all this part of the wall bristled with broken glass, which made it absolutely impossible to grasp.
He slid down again.
"Upon my word, Ya-Bon," he said, angrily, "you might have warned me!
Another second and you would have made me cut my hands to pieces.
What are you thinking of?
In fact, I can't imagine what made you so anxious to come with me at all costs."
There was a turn in the lane, hiding the light, so that they were now in utter darkness, and Captain Belval had to grope his way along.
He felt the negro's hand come down upon his shoulder.
"What do you want, Ya-Bon?"
The hand pushed him against the wall.
At this spot there was a door in an embrasure.
"Well, yes," he said, "that's a door.
Do you think I didn't see it?
Oh, no one has eyes but Master Ya-Bon, I suppose."
Ya-Bon handed him a box of matches.
He struck several, one after the other, and examined the door.
"What did I tell you?"
he said between his teeth.
"There's nothing to be done.
Massive wood, barred and studded with iron.
.
. .
Look, there's no handle on this side, merely a key-hole.
.
. .
Ah, what we want is a key, made to measure and cut for the purpose!
.
. .
For instance, a key like the one which the commissionaire left for me at the home just now.
.
. ."
He stopped.
An absurd idea flitted through his brain; and yet, absurd as it was, he felt that he was bound to perform the trifling action which it suggested to him.
He therefore retraced his steps.
He had the key on him.
He took it from his pocket.
He struck a fresh light.
The key-hole appeared.
Belval inserted the key at the first attempt.
He bore on it to the left: the key turned in the lock.
He pushed the door: it opened.
"Come along in," he said.
The negro did not stir a foot.
Patrice could understand his amazement.
All said, he himself was equally amazed.
By what unprecedented miracle was the key just the key of this very door?
By what miracle was the unknown person who had sent it him able to guess that he would be in a position to use it without further instructions?
A miracle indeed!
But Patrice had resolved to act without trying to solve the riddle which a mischievous chance seemed bent upon setting him.
"Come along in," he repeated, triumphantly.
Branches struck him in the face and he perceived that he was walking on grass and that there must be a garden lying in front of him.
It was so dark that he could not see the paths against the blackness of the turf; and, after walking for a minute or two, he hit his foot against some rocks with a sheet of water on them.
"Oh, confound it!"
he cursed.
"I'm all wet.
Damn you, Ya-Bon!"
He had not finished speaking when a furious barking was heard at the far end of the garden; and the sound at once came nearer, with extreme rapidity.
Patrice realized that a watchdog, perceiving their presence, was rushing upon them, and, brave as he was, he shuddered, because of the impressiveness of this attack in complete darkness.
How was he to defend himself?
A shot would betray them; and yet he carried no weapon but his revolver.
The dog came dashing on, a powerful animal, to judge by the noise it made, suggesting the rush of a wild boar through the copsewood.
It must have broken its chain, for it was accompanied by the clatter of iron.
Patrice braced himself to meet it.
But through the darkness he saw Ya-Bon pass before him to protect him, and the impact took place almost at once.
"Here, I say, Ya-Bon!
Why did you get in front of me?
It's all right, my lad, I'm coming!"
The two adversaries had rolled over on the grass.
Patrice stooped down, seeking to rescue the negro.
He touched the hair of an animal and then Ya-Bon's clothes.
But the two were wriggling on the ground in so compact a mass and fighting so frantically that his interference was useless.
Moreover, the contest did not last long.
In a few minutes the adversaries had ceased to move.
A strangled death-rattle issued from the group.
"Is it all right, Ya-Bon?"
whispered the captain, anxiously.
The negro stood up with a grunt.
By the light of a match Patrice saw that he was holding at the end of his outstretched arm, of the one arm with which he had had to defend himself, a huge dog, which was gurgling, clutched round the throat by Ya-Bon's implacable fingers.
A broken chain hung from its neck.
"Thank you, Ya-Bon.
I've had a narrow escape.
You can let him go now.
He can't do us any harm, I think."
Ya-Bon obeyed.
But he had no doubt squeezed too tight.
The dog writhed for a moment on the grass, gave a few moans and then lay without moving.
"Poor brute!"
said Patrice.
"After all, he only did his duty in going for the burglars that we are.
Let us do ours, Ya-Bon, which is nothing like as plain."
Something that shone like a window-pane guided his steps and led him, by a series of stairs cut in the rocks and of successive terraces, to the level ground on which the house was built.
On this side also, all the windows were round and high up, like those in the streets, and barricaded with shutters.
But one of them allowed the light which he had seen from below to filter through.
Telling Ya-Bon to hide in the shrubberies, he went up to the house, listened, caught an indistinct sound of voices, discovered that the shutters were too firmly closed to enable him either to see or to hear and, in this way, after the fourth window, reached a flight of steps.
At the top of the steps was a door.
"Since they sent me the key of the garden," he said to himself, "there's no reason why this door, which leads from the house into the garden, should not be open."
It was open.
The voices indoors were now more clearly perceptible, and Belval observed that they reached him by the well of the staircase and that this staircase, which seemed to lead to an unoccupied part of the house, showed with an uncertain light above him.
He went up.
A door stood ajar on the first floor.
He slipped his head through the opening and went in.
He found that he was on a narrow balcony which ran at mid-height around three sides of a large room, along book-shelves rising to the ceiling.
Against the wall at either end of the room was an iron spiral staircase.
Stacks of books were also piled against the bars of the railing which protected the gallery, thus hiding Patrice from the view of the people on the ground-floor, ten or twelve feet below.
He gently separated two of these stacks.
At that moment the sound of voices suddenly increased to a great uproar and he saw five men, shouting like lunatics, hurl themselves upon a sixth and fling him to the ground before he had time to lift a finger in self-defense.
Belval's first impulse was to rush to the victim's rescue.
With the aid of Ya-Bon, who would have hastened to his call, he would certainly have intimidated the five men.
The reason why he did not act was that, at any rate, they were using no weapons and appeared to have no murderous intentions.
After depriving their victim of all power of movement, they were content to hold him by the throat, shoulders and ankles.
Belval wondered what would happen next.
One of the five drew himself up briskly and, in a tone of command, said:

"Bind him.
.
. .
Put a gag in his mouth.
.
. .
Or let him call out, if he wants to: there's no one to hear him."
Patrice at once recognized one of the voices which he had heard that morning in the restaurant.
Its owner was a short, slim-built, well-dressed man, with an olive complexion and a cruel face.
"At last we've got him," he said, "the rascal!
And I think we shall get him to speak this time.
Are you prepared to go all lengths, friends?"
One of the other four growled, spitefully:

"Yes.
And at once, whatever happens!"
The last speaker had a big black mustache; and Patrice recognized the other man whose conversation at the restaurant he had overheard, that is to say, one of Coralie's assailants, the one who had taken to flight.
His gray-felt hat lay on a chair.
"All lengths, Bournef, whatever happens, eh?"
grinned the leader.
"Well, let's get on with the work.
So you refuse to give up your secret, Essarès, old man?
We shall have some fun."
All their movements must have been prepared beforehand and the parts carefully arranged, for the actions which they carried out were performed in an incredibly prompt and methodical fashion.
After the man was tied up, they lifted him into an easy-chair with a very low back, to which they fastened him round the chest and waist with a rope.
His legs, which were bound together, were placed on the seat of a heavy chair of the same height as the arm-chair, with the two feet projecting.
Then the victim's shoes and socks were removed.
"Roll him along!"
said the leader.
Between two of the four windows that overlooked the chimney was a large fire-place, in which burnt a red coal-fire, white in places with the intense heat of the hearth.
The men pushed the two chairs bearing the victim until his bare feet were within twenty inches of the blazing coals.
In spite of his gag, the man uttered a hideous yell of pain, while his legs, in spite of their bonds, succeeded in contracting and curling upon themselves.
"Go on!"
shouted the leader, passionately.
"Go on!
Nearer!"
Patrice Belval grasped his revolver.
"Oh, I'm going on too!"
he said to himself.
"I won't let that wretch be .
. ."
But, at this very moment, when he was on the point of drawing himself up and acting, a chance movement made him behold the most extraordinary and unexpected sight.
Opposite him, on the other side of the room, in a part of the balcony corresponding with that where he was, he saw a woman's head, a head glued to the rails, livid and terror-stricken, with eyes wide-open in horror gazing frenziedly at the awful scene that was being enacted below by the glowing fire.
Patrice had recognized Little Mother Coralie.
CHAPTER IV

BEFORE THE FLAMES

Little Mother Coralie!
Coralie concealed in this house into which her assailants had forced their way and in which she herself was hiding, through force of circumstances which were incapable of explanation.
His first idea, which would at least have solved one of the riddles, was that she also had entered from the lane, gone into the house by the steps and in this way opened a passage for him.
But, in that case, how had she procured the means of carrying out this enterprise?
And, above all, what brought her here?
All these questions occurred to Captain Belval's mind without his trying to reply to them.
He was far too much impressed by the absorbed expression on Coralie's face.
Moreover, a second cry, even wilder than the first, came from below; and he saw the victim's face writhing before the red curtain of fire from the hearth.
But, this time, Patrice, held back by Coralie's presence, had no inclination to go to the sufferer's assistance.
He decided to model himself entirely upon her and not to move or do anything to attract her attention.
"Easy!"
the leader commanded.
"Pull him back.
I expect he's had enough."
He went up to the victim:

"Well, my dear Essarès," he asked, "what do you think of it?
Are you happy?
And, you know, we're only beginning.
If you don't speak, we shall go on to the end, as the real _chauffeurs_ used to do in the days of the Revolution.
So it's settled, I presume: you're going to speak?"
There was no answer.
The leader rapped out an oath and went on:

"What do you mean?
Do you refuse?
But, you obstinate brute, don't you understand the situation?
Or have you a glimmer of hope?
Hope, indeed!
You're mad.
Who would rescue you?
Your servants?
The porter, the footman and the butler are in my pay.
I gave them a week's notice.
They're gone by now.
The housemaid?
The cook?
They sleep at the other end of the house; and you yourself have told me, time after time, that one can't hear anything over there.
Who else?
Your wife?
Her room also is far away; and she hasn't heard anything either?
Siméon, your old secretary?
We made him fast when he opened the front door to us just now.
Besides, we may as well finish the job here.
Bournef!"
The man with the big mustache, who was still holding the chair, drew himself up.
"Bournef, where did you lock up the secretary?"
"In the porter's lodge."
"You know where to find Mme.
Essarès' bedroom?"
"Yes, you told me the way."
"Go, all four of you, and bring the lady and the secretary here!"
The four men went out by a door below the spot where Coralie was standing.
They were hardly out of sight when the leader stooped eagerly over his victim and said:

"We're alone, Essarès.
It's what I intended.
Let's make the most of it."
He bent still lower and whispered so that Patrice found it difficult to hear what he said:

"Those men are fools.
I twist them round my finger and tell them no more of my plans than I can help.
You and I, on the other hand, Essarès, are the men to come to terms.
That is what you refused to admit; and you see where it has landed you.
Come, Essarès, don't be obstinate and don't shuffle.
You are caught in a trap, you are helpless, you are absolutely in my power.
Well, rather than allow yourself to be broken down by tortures which would certainly end by overcoming your resistance, strike a bargain with me.
We'll go halves, shall we?
Let's make peace and treat upon that basis.
I'll give you a hand in my game and you'll give me one in yours.
As allies, we are bound to win.
As enemies, who knows whether the victor will surmount all the obstacles that will still stand in his path?
That's why I say again, halves!
Answer me.
Yes or no."
He loosened the gag and listened.
This time, Patrice did not hear the few words which the victim uttered.
But the other, the leader, almost immediately burst into a rage:

"Eh?
What's that you're proposing?
Upon my word, but you're a cool hand!
An offer of this kind to me!
That's all very well for Bournef or his fellows.
They'll understand, they will.
But it won't do for me, it won't do for Colonel Fakhi.
No, no, my friend, I open my mouth wider!
I'll consent to go halves, but accept an alms, never!"
Patrice listened eagerly and, at the same time, kept his eyes on Coralie, whose face still contorted with anguish, wore an expression of the same rapt attention.
And he looked back at the victim, part of whose body was reflected in the glass above the mantelpiece.
The man was dressed in a braided brown-velvet smoking-suit and appeared to be about fifty years of age, quite bald, with a fleshy face, a large hooked nose, eyes deep set under a pair of thick eyebrows and puffy cheeks covered with a thick grizzled beard.
Patrice was also able to examine his features more closely in a portrait of him which hung to the left of the fireplace, between the first and second windows, and which represented a strong, powerful countenance with an almost fierce expression.
"It's an Eastern face," said Patrice to himself.
"I've seen heads like that in Egypt and Turkey."
The names of all these men too--Colonel Fakhi, Mustapha, Bournef, Essarès--their accent in talking, their way of holding themselves, their features, their figures, all recalled impressions which he had gathered in the Near East, in the hotels at Alexandria or on the banks of the Bosphorus, in the bazaars of Adrianople or in the Greek boats that plow the Ægean Sea.
They were Levantine types, but of Levantines who had taken root in Paris.
Essarès Bey was a name which Patrice recognized as well-known in the financial world, even as he knew that of Colonel Fakhi, whose speech and intonation marked him for a seasoned Parisian.
But a sound of voices came from outside the door.
It was flung open violently and the four men appeared, dragging in a bound man, whom they dropped to the floor as they entered.
"Here's old Siméon," cried the one whom Fakhi had addressed as Bournef.
"And the wife?"
asked the leader.
"I hope you've got her too!"
"Well, no."
"What is that?
Has she escaped?"
"Yes, through her window."
"But you must run after her.
She can only be in the garden.
Remember, the watch-dog was barking just now."
"And suppose she's got away?"
"How?"
"By the door on the lane?"
"Impossible!"
"Why?"
"The door hasn't been used for years.
There's not even a key to it."
"That's as may be," Bournef rejoined.
"All the same, we're surely not going to organize a battue with lanterns and rouse the whole district for the sake of finding a woman .
. ."
"Yes, but that woman .
. ."
Colonel Fakhi seemed exasperated.
He turned to the prisoner:

"You're in luck, you old rascal!
This is the second time to-day that minx of yours has slipped through my fingers!
Did she tell you what happened this afternoon?
Oh, if it hadn't been for an infernal officer who happened to be passing!
.
. .
But I'll get hold of him yet and he shall pay dearly for his interference.
.
. ."
Patrice clenched his fists with fury.
He understood: Coralie was hiding in her own house.
Surprised by the sudden arrival of the five men, she had managed to climb out of her window and, making her way along the terrace to the steps, had gone to the part of the house opposite the rooms that were in use and taken refuge in the gallery of the library, where she was able to witness the terrible assault levied at her husband.
"Her husband!"
thought Patrice, with a shudder.
"Her husband!"
And, if he still entertained any doubts on the subject, the hurried course of events soon removed them, for the leader began to chuckle:

"Yes, Essarès, old man, I confess that she attracts me more than I can tell you; and, as I failed to catch her earlier in the day, I did hope this evening, as soon as I had settled my business with you, to settle something infinitely more agreeable with your wife.
Not to mention that, once in my power, the little woman would be serving me as a hostage and that I would only have restored her to you--oh, safe and sound, believe me!--after specific performance of our agreement.
And you would have run straight, Essarès!
For you love your Coralie passionately!
And quite right too!"
He went to the right-hand side of the fireplace and, touching a switch, lit an electric lamp under a reflector between the third and fourth windows.
There was a companion picture here to Essarès' portrait, but it was covered over.
The leader drew the curtain, and Coralie appeared in the full light.
"The monarch of all she surveys!
The idol!
The witch!
The pearl of pearls!
The imperial diamond of Essarès Bey, banker!
Isn't she beautiful?
I ask you.
Admire the delicate outline of her face, the purity of that oval; and the pretty neck; and those graceful shoulders.
Essarès, there's not a favorite in the country we come from who can hold a candle to your Coralie!
My Coralie, soon!
For I shall know how to find her.
Ah, Coralie, Coralie!
.
. ."
Patrice looked across at her, and it seemed to him that her face was reddened with a blush of shame.
He himself was shaken by indignation and anger at each insulting word.
It was a violent enough sorrow to him to know that Coralie was the wife of another; and added to this sorrow was his rage at seeing her thus exposed to these men's gaze and promised as a helpless prey to whosoever should prove himself the strongest.
At the same time, he wondered why Coralie remained in the room.
Supposing that she could not leave the garden, nevertheless she was free to move about in that part of the house and might well have opened a window and called for help.
What prevented her from doing so?
Of course she did not love her husband.
If she had loved him, she would have faced every danger to defend him.
But how was it possible for her to allow that man to be tortured, worse still, to be present at his sufferings, to contemplate that most hideous of sights and to listen to his yells of pain?
"Enough of this nonsense!"
cried the leader, pulling the curtain back into its place.
"Coralie, you shall be my final reward; but I must first win you.
Comrades, to work; let's finish our friend's job.
First of all, twenty inches nearer, no more.
Good!
Does it burn, Essarès?
All the same, it's not more than you can stand.
Bear up, old fellow."
He unfastened the prisoner's right arm, put a little table by his side, laid a pencil and paper on it and continued:

"There's writing-materials for you.
As your gag prevents you from speaking, write.
You know what's wanted of you, don't you?
Scribble a few letters, and you're free.
Do you consent?
No?
Comrades, three inches nearer."
He moved away and stooped over the secretary, whom Patrice, by the brighter light, had recognized as the old fellow who sometimes escorted Coralie to the hospital.
"As for you, Siméon," he said, "you shall come to no harm.
I know that you are devoted to your master, but I also know that he tells you none of his private affairs.
On the other hand, I am certain that you will keep silent as to all this, because a single word of betrayal would involve your master's ruin even more than ours.
That's understood between us, isn't it?
Well, why don't you answer?
Have they squeezed your throat a bit too tight with their cords?
Wait, I'll give you some air.
.
. ."
Meanwhile the ugly work at the fireplace pursued its course.
The two feet were reddened by the heat until it seemed almost as though the bright flames of the fire were glowing through them.
The sufferer exerted all his strength in trying to bend his legs and to draw back; and a dull, continuous moan came through his gag.
"Oh, hang it all!"
thought Patrice.
"Are we going to let him roast like this, like a chicken on a spit?"
He looked at Coralie.
She did not stir.
Her face was distorted beyond recognition, and her eyes seemed fascinated by the terrifying sight.
"Couple of inches nearer!"
cried the leader, from the other end of the room, as he unfastened Siméon's bonds.
The order was executed.
The victim gave such a yell that Patrice's blood froze in his veins.
But, at the same moment, he became aware of something that had not struck him so far, or at least he had attached no significance to it.
The prisoner's hand, as the result of a sequence of little movements apparently due to nervous twitches, had seized the opposite edge of the table, while his arm rested on the marble top.
And gradually, unseen by the torturers, all whose efforts were directed to keeping his legs in position, or by the leader, who was still engaged with Siméon, this hand opened a drawer which swung on a hinge, dipped into the drawer, took out a revolver and, resuming its original position with a jerk, hid the weapon in the chair.
The act, or rather the intention which it indicated, was foolhardy in the extreme, for, when all was said, reduced to his present state of helplessness, the man could not hope for victory against five adversaries, all free and all armed.
Nevertheless, as Patrice looked at the glass in which he beheld him, he saw a fierce determination pictured in the man's face.
"Another two inches," said Colonel Fakhi, as he walked back to the fireplace.
He examined the condition of the flesh and said, with a laugh:

"The skin is blistering in places; the veins are ready to burst.
Essarès Bey, you can't be enjoying yourself, and it strikes me that you mean to do the right thing at last.
Have you started scribbling yet?
No?
And don't you mean to?
Are you still hoping?
Counting on your wife, perhaps?
Come, come, you must see that, even if she has succeeded in escaping, she won't say anything!
Well, then, are you humbugging me, or what?
.
. ."
He was seized with a sudden burst of rage and shouted:

"Shove his feet into the fire!
And let's have a good smell of burning for once!
Ah, you would defy me, would you?
Well, wait a bit, old chap, and let me have a go at you!
I'll cut you off an ear or two: you know, the way we have in our country!"
He drew from his waistcoat a dagger that gleamed in the firelight.
His face was hideous with animal cruelty.
He gave a fierce cry, raised his arm and stood over the other relentlessly.
But, swift as his movement was, Essarès was before him.
The revolver, quickly aimed, was discharged with a loud report.
The dagger dropped from the colonel's hand.
For two or three seconds he maintained his threatening attitude, with one arm lifted on high and a haggard look in his eyes, as though he did not quite understand what had happened to him.
And then, suddenly, he fell upon his victim in a huddled heap, paralyzing his arm with the full weight of his body, at the moment when Essarès was taking aim at one of the other confederates.
He was still breathing:

"Oh, the brute, the brute!"
he panted.
"He's killed me!
.
. .
But you'll lose by it, Essarès.
.
. .
I was prepared for this.
If I don't come home to-night, the prefect of police will receive a letter.
.
. .
They'll know about your treason, Essarès .
. .
all your story .
. .
your plans.
.
. .
Oh, you devil!
.
. .
And what a fool!
.
. .
We could so easily have come to terms.
.
. ."
He muttered a few inaudible words and rolled down to the floor.
It was all over.
A moment of stupefaction was produced not so much by this unexpected tragedy as by the revelation which the leader had made before dying and by the thought of that letter, which no doubt implicated the aggressors as well as their victim.
Bournef had disarmed Essarès.
The latter, now that the chair was no longer held in position, had succeeded in bending his legs.
No one moved.
Meanwhile, the sense of terror which the whole scene had produced seemed rather to increase with the silence.
On the ground was the corpse, with the blood flowing on the carpet.
Not far away lay Siméon's motionless form.
Then there was the prisoner, still bound in front of the flames waiting to devour his flesh.
And standing near him were the four butchers, hesitating perhaps what to do next, but showing in every feature an implacable resolution to defeat the enemy by all and every means.
His companions glanced at Bournef, who seemed the kind of man to go any length.
He was a short, stout, powerfully-built man; his upper lip bristled with the mustache which had attracted Patrice Belval's attention.
He was less cruel in appearance than his chief, less elegant in his manner and less masterful, but displayed far greater coolness and self-command.
As for the colonel, his accomplices seemed not to trouble about him.
The part which they were playing dispensed them from showing any empty compassion.
At last Bournef appeared to have made up his mind how to act.
He went to his hat, the gray-felt hat lying near the door, turned back the lining and took from it a tiny coil the sight of which made Patrice start.
It was a slender red cord, exactly like that which he had found round the neck of Mustapha Rovalaïof, the first accomplice captured by Ya-Bon.
Bournef unrolled the cord, took it by the two buckles, tested its strength across his knee and then, going back to Essarès, slipped it over his neck after first removing his gag.
"Essarès," he said, with a calmness which was more impressive than the colonel's violence and sneers, "Essarès, I shall not put you to any pain.
Torture is a revolting process; and I shall not have recourse to it.
You know what to do; I know what to do.
A word on your side, an action on my side; and the thing is done.
The word is the yes or no which you will now speak.
The action which I shall accomplish in reply to your yes or no will mean either your release or else .
. ."
He stopped for a second or two.
Then he declared:

"Or else your death."
The brief phrase was uttered very simply but with a firmness that gave it the full significance of an irrevocable sentence.
It was clear that Essarès was faced with a catastrophe which he could no longer avoid save by submitting absolutely.
In less than a minute, he would have spoken or he would be dead.
Once again Patrice fixed his eyes on Coralie, ready to interfere should he perceive in her any other feeling than one of passive terror.
But her attitude did not change.
She was therefore accepting the worst, it appeared, even though this meant her husband's death; and Patrice held his hand accordingly.
"Are we all agreed?"
Bournef asked, turning to his accomplices.
"Quite," said one of them.
"Do you take your share of the responsibility?"
"We do."
Bournef brought his hands together and crossed them, which had the result of knotting the cord round Essarès' neck.
Then he pulled slightly, so as to make the pressure felt, and asked, unemotionally:

"Yes or no?"
"Yes."
There was a murmur of satisfaction.
The accomplices heaved a breath; and Bournef nodded his head with an air of approval:

"Ah, so you accept!
It was high time: I doubt if any one was ever nearer death than you were, Essarès."
Retaining his hold of the cord, he continued, "Very well.
You will speak.
But I know you; and your answer surprises me, for I told the colonel that not even the certainty of death would make you confess your secret.
Am I wrong?"
"No," replied Essarès.
"Neither death nor torture."
"Then you have something different to propose?"
"Yes."
"Something worth our while?"
"Yes.
I suggested it to the colonel just now, when you were out of the room.
But, though he was willing to betray you and go halves with me in the secret, he refused the other thing."
"Why should I accept it?"
"Because you must take it or leave it and because you will understand what he did not."
"It's a compromise, I suppose?"
"Yes."
"Money?"
"Yes."
Bournef shrugged his shoulders:

"A few thousand-franc notes, I expect.
And you imagine that Bournef and his friends will be such fools?
.
. .
Come, Essarès, why do you want us to compromise?
We know your secret almost entirely.
.
. ."
"You know what it is, but not how to use it.
You don't know how to get at it; and that's just the point."
"We shall discover it."
"Never."
"Yes, your death will make it easier for us."
"My death?
Thanks to the information lodged by the colonel, in a few hours you will be tracked down and most likely caught: in any case, you will be unable to pursue your search.
Therefore you have hardly any choice.
It's the money which I'm offering you, or else .
. .
prison."
"And, if we accept," asked Bournef, to whom the argument seemed to appeal, "when shall we be paid?"
"At once."
"Then the money is here?"
"Yes."
"A contemptible sum, as I said before?"
"No, a much larger sum than you hope for; infinitely larger."
"How much?"
"Four millions."
CHAPTER V

HUSBAND AND WIFE

The accomplices started, as though they had received an electric shock.
Bournef darted forward:

"What did you say?"
"I said four millions, which means a million for each of you."
"Look here!
.
. .
Do you mean it?
.
. .
Four millions?
.
. ."
"Four millions is what I said."
The figure was so gigantic and the proposal so utterly unexpected that the accomplices had the same feeling which Patrice Belval on his side underwent.
They suspected a trap; and Bournef could not help saying:

"The offer is more than we expected.
.
. .
And I am wondering what induced you to make it."
"Would you have been satisfied with less?"
"Yes," said Bournef, candidly.
"Unfortunately, I can't make it less.
I have only one means of escaping death; and that is to open my safe for you.
And my safe contains four bundles of a thousand bank-notes each."
Bournef could not get over his astonishment and became more and more suspicious.
"How do you know that, after taking the four millions, we shall not insist on more?"
"Insist on what?
The secret of the site?"
"Yes."
"Because you know that I would as soon die as tell it you.
The four millions are the maximum.
Do you want them or don't you?
I ask for no promise in return, no oath of any kind, for I am convinced that, when you have filled your pockets, you will have but one thought, to clear off, without handicapping yourselves with a murder which might prove your undoing."
The argument was so unanswerable that Bournef ceased discussing and asked:

"Is the safe in this room?"
"Yes, between the first and second windows, behind my portrait."
Bournef took down the picture and said:

"I see nothing."
"It's all right.
The lines of the safe are marked by the moldings of the central panel.
In the middle you will see what looks like a rose, not of wood but of iron; and there are four others at the four corners of the panel.
These four turn to the right, by successive notches, forming a word which is the key to the lock, the word Cora."
"The first four letters of Coralie?"
asked Bournef, following Essarès' instructions as he spoke.
"No," said Essarès Bey, "the first four letters of the Coran.
Have you done that?"
After a moment, Bournef answered:

"Yes, I've finished.
And the key?"
"There's no key.
The fifth letter of the word, the letter N, is the letter of the central rose."
Bournef turned this fifth rose; and presently a click was heard.
"Now pull," said Essarès.
"That's it.
The safe is not deep: it's dug in one of the stones of the front wall.
Put in your hand.
You'll find four pocket-books."
It must be admitted that Patrice Belval expected to see something startling interrupt Bournef's quest and hurl him into some pit suddenly opened by Essarès' trickery.
And the three confederates seemed to share this unpleasant apprehension, for they were gray in the face, while Bournef himself appeared to be working very cautiously and suspiciously.
At last he turned round and came and sat beside Essarès.
In his hands he held a bundle of four pocket-books, short but extremely bulky and bound together with a canvas strap.
He unfastened the buckle of the strap and opened one of the pocket-books.
His knees shook under their precious burden, and, when he had taken a huge sheaf of notes from one of the compartments, his hands were like the hands of a very old man trembling with fever.
"Thousand-franc notes," he murmured.
"Ten packets of thousand-franc notes."
Brutally, like men prepared to fight one another, each of the other three laid hold of a pocket-book, felt inside and mumbled:

"Ten packets .
. .
they're all there.
.
. .
Thousand-franc notes .
. ."
And one of them forthwith cried, in a choking voice:

"Let's clear out!
.
. .
Let's go!"
A sudden fear was sending them off their heads.
They could not imagine that Essarès would hand over such a fortune to them unless he had some plan which would enable him to recover it before they had left the room.
That was a certainty.
The ceiling would come down on their heads.
The walls would close up and crush them to death, while sparing their unfathomable adversary.
Nor had Patrice Belval any doubt of it.
The disaster was preparing.
Essarès' revenge was inevitably at hand.
A man like him, a fighter as able as he appeared to be, does not so easily surrender four million francs if he has not some scheme at the back of his head.
Patrice felt himself breathing heavily.
His present excitement was more violent than any with which he had thrilled since the very beginning of the tragic scenes which he had been witnessing; and he saw that Coralie's face was as anxious as his own.
Meanwhile Bournef partially recovered his composure and, holding back his companions, said:

"Don't be such fools!
He would be capable, with old Siméon, of releasing himself and running after us."
Using only one hand, for the other was clutching a pocket-book, all four fastened Essarès' arm to the chair, while he protested angrily:

"You idiots!
You came here to rob me of a secret of immense importance, as you well knew, and you lose your heads over a trifle of four millions.
Say what you like, the colonel had more backbone than that!"
They gagged him once more and Bournef gave him a smashing blow with his fist which laid him unconscious.
"That makes our retreat safe," said Bournef.
"What about the colonel?"
asked one of the others.
"Are we to leave him here?"
"Why not?"
But apparently he thought this unwise; for he added:

"On second thoughts, no.
It's not to our interest to compromise Essarès any further.
What we must do, Essarès as well as ourselves, is to make ourselves scarce as fast as we can, before that damned letter of the colonel's is delivered at headquarters, say before twelve o'clock in the day."
"Then what do you suggest?"
"We'll take the colonel with us in the motor and drop him anywhere.
The police must make what they can of it."
"And his papers?"
"We'll look through his pockets as we go.
Lend me a hand."
They bandaged the wound to stop the flow of blood, took up the body, each holding it by an arm or leg, and walked out without any one of them letting go his pocket-book for a second.
Patrice Belval heard them pass through another room and then tramp heavily over the echoing flags of a hall.
"This is the moment," he said.
"Essarès or Siméon will press a button and the rogues will be nabbed."
Essarès did not budge.
Siméon did not budge.
Patrice heard all the sounds accompanying their departure: the slamming of the carriage-gate, the starting-up of the engine and the drone of the car as it moved away.
And that was all.
Nothing had happened.
The confederates were getting off with their four millions.
A long silence followed, during which Patrice remained on tenterhooks.
He did not believe that the drama had reached its last phase; and he was so much afraid of the unexpected which might still occur that he determined to make Coralie aware of his presence.
A fresh incident prevented him.
Coralie had risen to her feet.
Her face no longer wore its expression of horror and affright, but Patrice was perhaps more scared at seeing her suddenly animated with a sinister energy that gave an unwonted sparkle to her eyes and set her eyebrows and her lips twitching.
He realized that Coralie was preparing to act.
In what way?
Was this the end of the tragedy?
She walked to the corner on her side of the gallery where one of the two spiral staircases stood and went down slowly, without, however, trying to deaden the sound of her feet.
Her husband could not help hearing her.
Patrice, moreover, saw in the mirror that he had lifted his head and was following her with his eyes.
She stopped at the foot of the stairs.
But there was no indecision in her attitude.
Her plan was obviously quite clear; and she was only thinking out the best method of putting it into execution.
"Ah!"
whispered Patrice to himself, quivering all over.
"What are you doing, Little Mother Coralie?"
He gave a start.
The direction in which Coralie's eyes were turned, together with the strange manner in which they stared, revealed her secret resolve to him.
She had caught sight of the dagger, lying on the floor where it had slipped from the colonel's grasp.
Not for a second did Patrice believe that she meant to pick up that dagger with any other thought than to stab her husband.
The intention of murder was so plainly written on her livid features that, even before she stirred a limb, Essarès was seized with a fit of terror and strained every muscle to break the bonds that hampered his movements.
She came forward, stopped once more and, suddenly bending, seized the dagger.
Without waiting, she took two more steps.
These brought her to the right of the chair in which Essarès lay.
He had only to turn his head a little way to see her.
And an awful minute passed, during which the husband and wife looked into each other's eyes.
The whirl of thoughts, of fear, of hatred, of vagrant and conflicting passions that passed through the brains of her who was about to kill and him who was about to die, was reproduced in Patrice Belval's mind and deep down in his inner consciousness.
What was he to do?
What part ought he to play in the tragedy that was being enacted before his eyes?
Should he intervene?
Was it his duty to prevent Coralie from committing the irreparable deed?
Or should he commit it himself by breaking the man's head with a bullet from his revolver?
Yet, from the beginning, Patrice had really been swayed by a feeling which, mingling with all the others, gradually paralyzed him and rendered any inward struggle illusory: a feeling of curiosity driven to its utmost pitch.
It was not the everyday curiosity of unearthing a squalid secret, but the higher curiosity of penetrating the mysterious soul of a woman whom he loved, who was carried away by the rush of events and who suddenly, becoming once more mistress of herself, was of her own accord and with impressive calmness taking the most fearful resolution.
Thereupon other questions forced themselves upon him.
What prompted her to take this resolution?
Was it revenge?
Was it punishment?
Was it the gratification of hatred?
Patrice Belval remained where he was.
Coralie raised her arm.
Her husband, in front of her, no longer even attempted to make those movements of despair which indicate a last effort.
There was neither entreaty nor menace in his eyes.
He waited in resignation.
Not far from them, old Siméon, still bound, half-lifted himself on his elbows and stared at them in dismay.
Coralie raised her arm again.
Her whole frame seemed to grow larger and taller.
An invisible force appeared to strengthen and stiffen her whole being, summoning all her energies to the service of her will.
She was on the point of striking.
Her eyes sought the place at which she should strike.
Yet her eyes became less hard and less dark.
It even seemed to Patrice that there was a certain hesitation in her gaze and that she was recovering not her usual gentleness, but a little of her womanly grace.
"Ah, Little Mother Coralie," murmured Patrice, "you are yourself again!
You are the woman I know.
Whatever right you may think you have to kill that man, you will not kill him .
. .
and I prefer it so."
Slowly Coralie's arm dropped to her side.
Her features relaxed.
Patrice could guess the immense relief which she felt at escaping from the obsessing purpose that was driving her to murder.
She looked at her dagger with astonishment, as though she were waking from a hideous nightmare.
And, bending over her husband she began to cut his bonds.
She did so with visible repugnance, avoiding his touch, as it were, and shunning his eyes.
The cords were severed one by one.
Essarès was free.
What happened next was in the highest measure unexpected.
With not a word of thanks to his wife, with not a word of anger either, this man who had just undergone the most cruel torture and whose body still throbbed with pain hurriedly tottered barefoot to a telephone standing on a table.
He was like a hungry man who suddenly sees a piece of bread and snatches at it greedily as the means of saving himself and returning to life.
Panting for breath, Essarès took down the receiver and called out:

"Central 40.39."
Then he turned abruptly to his wife:

"Go away," he said.
She seemed not to hear.
She had knelt down beside old Siméon and was setting him free also.
Essarès at the telephone began to lose patience:

"Are you there?
.
. .
Are you there?
.
. .
I want that number to-day, please, not next week!
It's urgent.
.
. .
40.39. .
. .
It's urgent, I tell you!"
And, turning to Coralie, he repeated, in an imperious tone:

"Go away!"
She made a sign that she would not go away and that, on the contrary, she meant to listen.
He shook his fist at her and again said:

"Go away, go away!
.
. .
I won't have you stay in the room.
You go away too, Siméon."
Old Siméon got up and moved towards Essarès.
It looked as though he wished to speak, no doubt to protest.
But his action was undecided; and, after a moment's reflection, he turned to the door and went without uttering a word.
"Go away, will you, go away!"
Essarès repeated, his whole body expressing menace.
But Coralie came nearer to him and crossed her arms obstinately and defiantly.
At that moment, Essarès appeared to get his call, for he asked:

"Is that 40.39?
Ah, yes .
. ."
He hesitated.
Coralie's presence obviously displeased him greatly, and he was about to say things which he did not wish her to know.
But time, no doubt, was pressing.
He suddenly made up his mind and, with both receivers glued to his ears, said, in English:

"Is that you, Grégoire?
.
. .
Essarès speaking.
.
. .
Hullo!
.
. .
Yes, I'm speaking from the Rue Raynouard.
.
. .
There's no time to lose.
.
. .
Listen.
.
. ."
He sat down and went on:

"Look here.
Mustapha's dead.
So is the colonel.
.
. .
Damn it, don't interrupt, or we're done for!
.
. .
Yes, done for; and you too.
.
. .
Listen, they all came, the colonel, Bournef, the whole gang, and robbed me by means of violence and threats.
.
. .
I finished the colonel, only he had written to the police, giving us all away.
The letter will be delivered soon.
So you understand, Bournef and his three ruffians are going to disappear.
They'll just run home and pack up their papers; and I reckon they'll be with you in an hour, or two hours at most.
It's the refuge they're sure to make for.
They prepared it themselves, without suspecting that you and I know each other.
So there's no doubt about it.
They're sure to come.
.
. ."
Essarès stopped.
He thought for a moment and resumed:

"You still have a second key to each of the rooms which they use as bedrooms?
Is that so?
.
. .
Good.
And you have duplicates of the keys that open the cupboards in the walls of those rooms, haven't you?
.
. .
Capital.
Well, as soon as they get to sleep, or rather as soon as you are certain that they are sound asleep, go in and search the cupboards.
Each of them is bound to hide his share of the booty there.
You'll find it quite easily.
It's the four pocket-books which you know of.
Put them in your bag, clear out as fast as you can and join me."
There was another pause.
This time it was Essarès listening.
He replied:

"What's that you say?
Rue Raynouard?
Here?
Join me here?
Why, you must be mad!
Do you imagine that I can stay now, after the colonel's given me away?
No, go and wait for me at the hotel, near the station.
I shall be there by twelve o'clock or one in the afternoon, perhaps a little later.
Don't be uneasy.
Have your lunch quietly and we'll talk things over .
. .
Hullo!
Did you hear?
.
. .
Very well, I'll see that everything's all right.
Good-by for the present."
The conversation was finished; and it looked as if Essarès, having taken all his measures to recover possession of the four million francs, had no further cause for anxiety.
He hung up the receiver, went back to the lounge-chair in which he had been tortured, wheeled it round with its back to the fire, sat down, turned down the bottoms of his trousers and pulled on his socks and shoes, all a little painfully and accompanied by a few grimaces, but calmly, in the manner of a man who has no need to hurry.
Coralie kept her eyes fixed on his face.
"I really ought to go," thought Captain Belval, who felt a trifle embarrassed at the thought of overhearing what the husband and wife were about to say.
Nevertheless he stayed.
He was not comfortable in his mind on Coralie's account.
Essarès fired the first shot:

"Well," he asked, "what are you looking at me like that for?"
"So it's true?"
she murmured, maintaining her attitude of defiance.
"You leave me no possibility of doubt?"
"Why should I lie?"
he snarled.
"I should not have telephoned in your hearing if I hadn't been sure that you were here all the time."
"I was up there."
"Then you heard everything?"
"Yes."
"And saw everything?"
"Yes."
"And, seeing the torture which they inflicted on me and hearing my cries, you did nothing to defend me, to defend me against torture, against death!"
"No, for I knew the truth."
"What truth?"
"The truth which I suspected without daring to admit it."
"What truth?"
he repeated, in a louder voice.
"The truth about your treason."
"You're mad.
I've committed no treason."
"Oh, don't juggle with words!
I confess that I don't know the whole truth: I did not understand all that those men said or what they were demanding of you.
But the secret which they tried to force from you was a treasonable secret."
"A man can only commit treason against his country," he said, shrugging his shoulders.
"I'm not a Frenchman."
"You were a Frenchman!"
she cried.
"You asked to be one and you became one.
You married me, a Frenchwoman, and you live in France and you've made your fortune in France.
It's France that you're betraying."
"Don't talk nonsense!
And for whose benefit?"
"I don't know that, either.
For months, for years indeed, the colonel, Bournef, all your former accomplices and yourself have been engaged on an enormous work--yes, enormous, it's their own word--and now it appears that you are fighting over the profits of the common enterprise and the others accuse you of pocketing those profits for yourself alone and of keeping a secret that doesn't belong to you.
So that I seem to see something dirtier and more hateful even than treachery, something worthy of a common pickpocket.
.
. ."
The man struck the arm of his chair with his fist:

"Enough!"
he cried.
Coralie seemed in no way alarmed:

"Enough," she echoed, "you are right.
Enough words between us.
Besides, there is one fact that stands out above everything: your flight.
That amounts to a confession.
You're afraid of the police."
He shrugged his shoulders a second time:

"I'm afraid of nobody."
"Very well, but you're going."
"Yes."
"Then let's have it out.
When are you going?"
"Presently, at twelve o'clock."
"And if you're arrested?"
"I sha'n't be arrested."
"If you are arrested, however?"
"I shall be let go."
"At least there will be an inquiry, a trial?"
"No, the matter will be hushed up."
"You hope so."
"I'm sure of it."
"God grant it!
And you will leave France, of course?"
"As soon as I can."
"When will that be?"
"In a fortnight or three weeks."
"Send me word of the day, so that I may know when I can breathe again."
"I shall send you word, Coralie, but for another reason."
"What reason?"
"So that you may join me."
"Join you!"
He gave a cruel smile:

"You are my wife," he said.
"Where the husband goes the wife goes; and you know that, in my religion, the husband has every right over his wife, including that of life and death.
Well, you're my wife."
Coralie shook her head, and, in a tone of indescribable contempt, answered:

"I am not your wife.
I feel nothing for you but loathing and horror.
I don't wish to see you again, and, whatever happens, whatever you may threaten, I shall not see you again."
He rose, and, walking to her, bent in two, all trembling on his legs, he shouted, while again he shook his clenched fists at her:

"What's that you say?
What's that you dare to say?
I, I, your lord and master, order you to join me the moment that I send for you."
"I shall not join you.
I swear it before God!
I swear it as I hope to be saved."
He stamped his feet with rage.
His face underwent a hideous contortion; and he roared:

"That means that you want to stay!
Yes, you have reasons which I don't know, but which are easy to guess!
An affair of the heart, I suppose.
There's some one in your life, no doubt.
.
. .
Hold your tongue, will you?
.
. .
Haven't you always detested me?
.
. .
Your hatred does not date from to-day.
It dates back to the first time you saw me, to a time even before our marriage.
.
. .
We have always lived like mortal enemies.
I loved you.
I worshipped you.
A word from you would have brought me to your feet.
The mere sound of your steps thrilled me to the marrow.
.
. .
But your feeling for me is one of horror.
And you imagine that you are going to start a new life, without me?
Why, I'd sooner kill you, my beauty!"
He had unclenched his fists; and his open hands were clutching on either side of Coralie, close to her head, as though around a prey which they seemed on the point of throttling.
A nervous shiver made his jaws clash together.
Beads of perspiration gleamed on his bald head.
In front of him, Coralie stood impassive, looking very small and frail.
Patrice Belval, in an agony of suspense and ready at any moment to act, could read nothing on her calm features but aversion and contempt.
Mastering himself at last, Essarès said:

"You shall join me, Coralie.
Whether you like it or not, I am your husband.
You felt it just now, when the lust to murder me made you take up a weapon and left you without the courage to carry out your intention.
It will always be like that.
Your independent fit will pass away and you will join the man who is your master."
"I shall remain behind to fight against you," she replied, "here, in this house.
The work of treason which you have accomplished I shall destroy.
I shall do it without hatred, for I am no longer capable of hatred, but I shall do it without intermission, to repair the evil which you have wrought."
He answered, in a low voice:

"I _am_ capable of hatred.
Beware, Coralie.
The very moment when you believe that you have nothing more to fear will perhaps be the moment when I shall call you to account.
Take care."
He pushed an electric bell.
Old Siméon appeared.
"So the two men-servants have decamped?"
asked Essarès.
And, without waiting for the answer, he went on, "A good riddance.
The housemaid and the cook can do all I want.
They heard nothing, did they?
No, their bedroom is too far away.
No matter, Siméon: you must keep a watch on them after I am gone."
He looked at his wife, surprised to see her still there, and said to his secretary:

"I must be up at six to get everything ready; and I am dead tired.
Take me to my room.
You can come back and put out the lights afterwards."
He went out, supported by Siméon.
Patrice Belval at once perceived that Coralie had done her best to show no weakness in her husband's presence, but that she had come to the end of her strength and was unable to walk.
Seized with faintness, she fell on her knees, making the sign of the cross.
When she was able to rise, a few minutes later, she saw on the carpet, between her and the door, a sheet of note-paper with her name on it.
She picked it up and read:

"Little Mother Coralie, the struggle is too much for       you.
Why not appeal to me, your friend?
Give a signal       and I am with you."
She staggered, dazed by the discovery of the letter and dismayed by Belval's daring.
But, making a last effort to summon up her power of will, she left the room, without giving the signal for which Patrice was longing.
CHAPTER VI

NINETEEN MINUTES PAST SEVEN

Patrice, in his bedroom at the home, was unable to sleep that night.
He had a continual waking sensation of being oppressed and hunted down, as though he were suffering the terrors of some monstrous nightmare.
He had an impression that the frantic series of events in which he was playing the combined parts of a bewildered spectator and a helpless actor would never cease so long as he tried to rest; that, on the contrary, they would rage with greater violence and intensity.
The leave-taking of the husband and wife did not put an end, even momentarily, to the dangers incurred by Coralie.
Fresh perils arose on every side; and Patrice Belval confessed himself incapable of foreseeing and still more of allaying them.
After lying awake for two hours, he switched on his electric light and began hurriedly to write down the story of the past twelve hours.
He hoped in this way to some small extent to unravel the tangled knot.
At six o'clock he went and roused Ya-Bon and brought him back with him.
Then, standing in front of the astonished negro, he crossed his arms and exclaimed:

"So you consider that your job is over!
While I lie tossing about in the dark, my lord sleeps and all's well!
My dear man, you have a jolly elastic conscience."
The word elastic amused the Senegalese mightily.
His mouth opened wider than ever; and he gave a grunt of enjoyment.
"That'll do, that'll do," said the captain.
"There's no getting a word in, once you start talking.
Here, take a chair, read this report and give me your reasoned opinion.
What?
You don't know how to read?
Well, upon my word!
What was the good, then, of wearing out the seat of your trousers on the benches of the Senegal schools and colleges?
A queer education, I must say!"
He heaved a sigh, and, snatching the manuscript, said:

"Listen, reflect, argue, deduct and conclude.
This is how the matter briefly stands.
First, we have one Essarès Bey, a banker, rich as Crœsus, and the lowest of rapscallions, who betrays at one and the same time France, Egypt, England, Turkey, Bulgaria and Greece .
. .
as is proved by the fact that his accomplices roast his feet for him.
Thereupon he kills one of them and gets rid of four with the aid of as many millions, which millions he orders another accomplice to get back for him before five minutes are passed.
And all these bright spirits will duck underground at eleven o'clock this morning, for at twelve o'clock the police propose to enter on the scene.
Good."
Patrice Belval paused to take breath and continued:

"Secondly, Little Mother Coralie--upon my word, I can't say why--is married to Rapscallion Bey.
She hates him and wants to kill him.
He loves her and wants to kill her.
There is also a colonel who loves her and for that reason loses his life and a certain Mustapha, who tries to kidnap her on the colonel's account and also loses his life for that reason, strangled by a Senegalese.
Lastly, there is a French captain, a dot-and-carry-one, who likewise loves her, but whom she avoids because she is married to a man whom she abhors.
And with this captain, in a previous incarnation, she has halved an amethyst bead.
Add to all this, by way of accessories, a rusty key, a red silk bowstring, a dog choked to death and a grate filled with red coals.
And, if you dare to understand a single word of my explanation, I'll catch you a whack with my wooden leg, for I don't understand it a little bit and I'm your captain."
Ya-Bon laughed all over his mouth and all over the gaping scar that cut one of his cheeks in two.
As ordered by his captain, he understood nothing of the business and very little of what Patrice had said; but he always quivered with delight when Patrice addressed him in that gruff tone.
"That's enough," said the captain.
"It's my turn now to argue, deduct and conclude."
He leant against the mantelpiece, with his two elbows on the marble shelf and his head tight-pressed between his hands.
His merriment, which sprang from temperamental lightness of heart, was this time only a surface merriment.
Deep down within himself he did nothing but think of Coralie with sorrowful apprehension.
What could he do to protect her?
A number of plans occurred to him: which was he to choose?
Should he hunt through the numbers in the telephone-book till he hit upon the whereabouts of that Grégoire, with whom Bournef and his companions had taken refuge?
Should he inform the police?
Should he return to the Rue Raynouard?
He did not know.
Yes, he was capable of acting, if the act to be performed consisted in flinging himself into the conflict with furious ardor.
But to prepare the action, to divine the obstacles, to rend the darkness, and, as he said, to see the invisible and grasp the intangible, that was beyond his powers.
He turned suddenly to Ya-Bon, who was standing depressed by his silence:

"What's the matter with you, putting on that lugubrious air?
Of course it's you that throw a gloom over me!
You always look at the black side of things .
. .
like a nigger!
.
. .
Be off."
Ya-Bon was going away discomfited, when some one tapped at the door and a voice said:

"Captain Belval, you're wanted on the telephone."
Patrice hurried out.
Who on earth could be telephoning to him so early in the morning?
"Who is it?"
he asked the nurse.
"I don't know, captain.
.
. .
It's a man's voice; he seemed to want you urgently.
The bell had been ringing some time.
I was downstairs, in the kitchen.
.
. ."
Before Patrice's eyes there rose a vision of the telephone in the Rue Raynouard, in the big room at the Essarès' house.
He could not help wondering if there was anything to connect the two incidents.
He went down one flight of stairs and along a passage.
The telephone was through a small waiting-room, in a room that had been turned into a linen-closet.
He closed the door behind him.
"Hullo!
Captain Belval speaking.
What is it?"
A voice, a man's voice which he did not know, replied in breathless, panting tones:

"Ah!
.
. .
Captain Belval!
.
. .
It's you!
.
. .
Look here .
. .
but I'm almost afraid that it's too late.
.
. .
I don't know if I shall have time to finish.
.
. .
Did you get the key and the letter?
.
. ."
"Who are you?"
asked Patrice.
"Did you get the key and the letter?"
the voice insisted.
"The key, yes," Patrice replied, "but not the letter."
"Not the letter?
But this is terrible!
Then you don't know .
. ."
A hoarse cry struck Patrice's ear and the next thing he caught was incoherent sounds at the other end of the wire, the noise of an altercation.
Then the voice seemed to glue itself to the instrument and he distinctly heard it gasping:

"Too late!
.
. .
Patrice .
. .
is that you?
.
. .
Listen, the amethyst pendant .
. .
yes, I have it on me.
.
. .
The pendant.
.
. .
Ah, it's too late!
.
. .
I should so much have liked to .
. .
Patrice.
.
. .
Coralie.
.
. ."
Then again a loud cry, a heart-rending cry, and confused sounds growing more distant, in which he seemed to distinguish:

"Help!
.
. .
Help!
.
. ."
These grew fainter and fainter.
Silence followed.
And suddenly there was a little click.
The murderer had hung up the receiver.
All this had not taken twenty seconds.
But, when Patrice wanted to replace the telephone, his fingers were gripping it so hard that it needed an effort to relax them.
He stood utterly dumfounded.
His eyes had fastened on a large clock which he saw, through the window, on one of the buildings in the yard, marking nineteen minutes past seven; and he mechanically repeated these figures, attributing a documentary value to them.
Then he asked himself--so unreal did the scene appear to him--if all this was true and if the crime had not been penetrated within himself, in the depths of his aching heart.
But the shouting still echoed in his ears; and suddenly he took up the receiver again, like one clinging desperately to some undefined hope:

"Hullo!"
he cried.
"Exchange!
.
. .
Who was it rang me up just now?
.
. .
Are you there?
Did you hear the cries?
.
. .
Are you there?
.
. .
Are you there?
.
. ."
There was no reply.
He lost his temper, insulted the exchange, left the linen-closet, met Ya-Bon and pushed him about:

"Get out of this!
It's your fault.
Of course you ought to have stayed and looked after Coralie.
Be off there now and hold yourself at my disposal.
I'm going to inform the police.
If you hadn't prevented me, it would have been done long ago and we shouldn't be in this predicament.
Off you go!"
He held him back:

"No, don't stir.
Your plan's ridiculous.
Stay here.
Oh, not here in my pocket!
You're too impetuous for me, my lad!"
He drove him out and returned to the linen-closet, striding up and down and betraying his excitement in irritable gestures and angry words.
Nevertheless, in the midst of his confusion, one idea gradually came to light, which was that, after all, he had no proof that the crime which he suspected had happened at the house in the Rue Raynouard.
He must not allow himself to be obsessed by the facts that lingered in his memory to the point of always seeing the same vision in the same tragic setting.
No doubt the drama was being continued, as he had felt that it would be, but perhaps elsewhere and far away from Coralie.
And this first thought led to another: why not investigate matters at once?
"Yes, why not?"
he asked himself.
"Before bothering the police, discovering the number of the person who rang me up and thus working back to the start, a process which it will be time enough to employ later, why shouldn't I telephone to the Rue Raynouard at once, on any pretext and in anybody's name?
I shall then have a chance of knowing what to think.
.
. ."
Patrice felt that this measure did not amount to much.
Suppose that no one answered, would that prove that the murder had been committed in the house, or merely that no one was yet about?
Nevertheless, the need to do something decided him.
He looked up Essarès Bey's number in the telephone-directory and resolutely rang up the exchange.
The strain of waiting was almost more than he could bear.
And then he was conscious of a thrill which vibrated through him from head to foot.
He was connected; and some one at the other end was answering the call.
"Hullo!"
he said.
"Hullo!"
said a voice.
"Who are you?"
It was the voice of Essarès Bey.
Although this was only natural, since at that moment Essarès must be getting his papers ready and preparing his flight, Patrice was so much taken aback that he did not know what to say and spoke the first words that came into his head:

"Is that Essarès Bey?"
"Yes.
Who are you?"
"I'm one of the wounded at the hospital, now under treatment at the home.
.
. ."
"Captain Belval, perhaps?"
Patrice was absolutely amazed.
So Coralie's husband knew him by name?
He stammered:

"Yes .
. .
Captain Belval."
"What a lucky thing!"
cried Essarès Bey, in a tone of delight.
"I rang you up a moment ago, at the home, Captain Belval, to ask .
. ."
"Oh, it was you!"
interrupted Patrice, whose astonishment knew no bounds.
"Yes, I wanted to know at what time I could speak to Captain Belval in order to thank him."
"It was _you_!
.
. .
It was _you_!
.
. ."
Patrice repeated, more and more thunderstruck.
Essarès' intonation denoted a certain surprise.
"Yes, wasn't it a curious coincidence?"
he said.
"Unfortunately, I was cut off, or rather my call was interrupted by somebody else."
"Then you heard?"
"What, Captain Belval?"
"Cries."
"Cries?"
"At least, so it seemed to me; but the connection was very indistinct."
"All that I heard was somebody asking for you, somebody who was in a great hurry; and, as I was not, I hung up the telephone and postponed the pleasure of thanking you."
"Of thanking me?"
"Yes, I have heard how my wife was assaulted last night and how you came to her rescue.
And I am anxious to see you and express my gratitude.
Shall we make an appointment?
Could we meet at the hospital, for instance, at three o'clock this afternoon?"
Patrice made no reply.
The audacity of this man, threatened with arrest and preparing for flight, baffled him.
At the same time, he was wondering what Essarès' real object had been in telephoning to him without being in any way obliged to.
But Belval's silence in no way troubled the banker, who continued his civilities and ended the inscrutable conversation with a monologue in which he replied with the greatest ease to questions which he kept putting to himself.
In spite of everything, Patrice felt more comfortable.
He went back to his room, lay down on his bed and slept for two hours.
Then he sent for Ya-Bon.
"This time," he said, "try to control your nerves and not to lose your head as you did just now.
You were absurd.
But don't let's talk about it.
Have you had your breakfast?
No?
No more have I.
Have you seen the doctor?
No?
No more have I.
And the surgeon has just promised to take off this beastly bandage.
You can imagine how pleased I am.
A wooden leg is all very well; but a head wrapped up in lint, for a lover, never!
Get on, look sharp.
When we're ready, we'll start for the hospital.
Little Mother Coralie can't forbid me to see her there!"
Patrice was as happy as a schoolboy.
As he said to Ya-Bon an hour later, on their way to the Porte-Maillot, the clouds were beginning to roll by:

"Yes, Ya-Bon, yes, they are.
And this is where we stand.
To begin with, Coralie is not in danger.
As I hoped, the battle is being fought far away from her, among the accomplices no doubt, over their millions.
As for the unfortunate man who rang me up and whose dying cries I overheard, he was obviously some unknown friend, for he addressed me familiarly and called me by my Christian name.
It was certainly he who sent me the key of the garden.
Unfortunately, the letter that came with the key went astray.
In the end, he felt constrained to tell me everything.
Just at that moment he was attacked.
By whom, you ask.
Probably by one of the accomplices, who was frightened of his revelations.
There you are, Ya-Bon.
It's all as clear as noonday.
For that matter, the truth may just as easily be the exact opposite of what I suggest.
But I don't care.
The great thing is to take one's stand upon a theory, true or false.
Besides, if mine is false, I reserve the right to shift the responsibility on you.
So you know what you're in for.
.
. ."
At the Porte-Maillot they took a cab and it occurred to Patrice to drive round by the Rue Raynouard.
At the junction of this street with the Rue de Passy, they saw Coralie leaving the Rue Raynouard, accompanied by old Siméon.
She had hailed a taxi and stepped inside.
Siméon sat down by the driver.
They went to the hospital in the Champs-Élysées, with Patrice following.
It was eleven o'clock when they arrived.
"All's well," said Patrice.
"While her husband is running away, she refuses to make any change in her daily life."
He and Ya-Bon lunched in the neighborhood, strolled along the avenue, without losing sight of the hospital, and called there at half-past one.
Patrice at once saw old Siméon, sitting at the end of a covered yard where the soldiers used to meet.
His head was half wrapped up in the usual comforter; and, with his big yellow spectacles on his nose, he sat smoking his pipe on the chair which he always occupied.
As for Coralie, she was in one of the rooms allotted to her on the first floor, seated by the bedside of a patient whose hand she held between her own.
The man was asleep.
Coralie appeared to Patrice to be very tired.
The dark rings round her eyes and the unusual pallor of her cheeks bore witness to her fatigue.
"Poor child!"
he thought.
"All those blackguards will be the death of you."
He now understood, when he remembered the scenes of the night before, why Coralie kept her private life secret and endeavored, at least to the little world of the hospital, to be merely the kind sister whom people call by her Christian name.
Suspecting the web of crime with which she was surrounded, she dropped her husband's name and told nobody where she lived.
And so well was she protected by the defenses set up by her modesty and determination that Patrice dared not go to her and stood rooted to the threshold.
"Yet surely," he said to himself, as he looked at Coralie without being seen by her, "I'm not going to send her in my card!"
He was making up his mind to enter, when a woman who had come up the stairs, talking loudly as she went, called out:

"Where is madame?
.
. .
M. Siméon, she must come at once!"
Old Siméon, who had climbed the stairs with her, pointed to where Coralie sat at the far end of the room; and the woman rushed in.
She said a few words to Coralie, who seemed upset and at once, ran to the door, passing in front of Patrice, and down the stairs, followed by Siméon and the woman.
"I've got a taxi, ma'am," stammered the woman, all out of breath.
"I had the luck to find one when I left the house and I kept it.
We must be quick, ma'am.
.
. .
The commissary of police told me to .
. ."
Patrice, who was downstairs by this time, heard nothing more; but the last words decided him.
He seized hold of Ya-Bon as he passed; and the two of them leapt into a cab, telling the driver to follow Coralie's taxi.
"There's news, Ya-Bon, there's news!"
said Patrice.
"The plot is thickening.
The woman is obviously one of the Essarès' servants and she has come for her mistress by the commissary's orders.
Therefore the colonel's disclosures are having their effect.
House searched; magistrate's inquest; every sort of worry for Little Mother Coralie; and you have the cheek to advise me to be careful!
You imagine that I would leave her to her own devices at such a moment!
What a mean nature you must have, my poor Ya-Bon!"
An idea occurred to him; and he exclaimed:

"Heavens!
I hope that ruffian of an Essarès hasn't allowed himself to be caught!
That would be a disaster!
But he was far too sure of himself.
I expect he's been trifling away his time.
.
. ."
All through the drive this fear excited Captain Belval and removed his last scruples.
In the end his certainty was absolute.
Nothing short of Essarès' arrest could have produced the servant's attitude of panic or Coralie's precipitate departure.
Under these conditions, how could he hesitate to interfere in a matter in which his revelations would enlighten the police?
All the more so as, by revealing less or more, according to circumstances, he could make his evidence subservient to Coralie's interests.
The two cabs pulled up almost simultaneously outside the Essarès' house, where a car was already standing.
Coralie alighted and disappeared through the carriage-gate.
The maid and Siméon also crossed the pavement.
"Come along," said Patrice to the Senegalese.
The front-door was ajar and Patrice entered.
In the big hall were two policemen on duty.
Patrice acknowledged their presence with a hurried movement of his hand and passed them with the air of a man who belonged to the house and whose importance was so great that nothing done without him could be of any use.
The sound of his footsteps echoing on the flags reminded him of the flight of Bournef and his accomplices.
He was on the right road.
Moreover, there was a drawing-room on the left, the room, communicating with the library, to which the accomplices had carried the colonel's body.
Voices came from the library.
He walked across the drawing-room.
At that moment he heard Coralie exclaim in accents of terror:

"Oh, my God, it can't be!
.
. ."
Two other policemen barred the doorway.
"I am a relation of Mme.
Essarès'," he said, "her only relation.
.
. ."
"We have our orders, captain .
. ."
"I know, of course.
Be sure and let no one in!
Ya-Bon, stay here."
And he went in.
But, in the immense room, a group of six or seven gentlemen, no doubt commissaries of police and magistrates, stood in his way, bending over something which he was unable to distinguish.
From amidst this group Coralie suddenly appeared and came towards him, tottering and wringing her hands.
The housemaid took her round the waist and pressed her into a chair.
"What's the matter?"
asked Patrice.
"Madame is feeling faint," replied the woman, still quite distraught.
"Oh, I'm nearly off my head!"
"But why?
What's the reason?"
"It's the master .
. .
just think!
.
. .
Such a sight!
.
. .
It gave me a turn, too .
. ."
"What sight?"
One of the gentlemen left the group and approached:

"Is Mme.
Essarès ill?"
"It's nothing," said the maid.
"A fainting-fit.
.
. .
She is liable to these attacks."
"Take her away as soon as she can walk.
We shall not need her any longer."
And, addressing Patrice Belval with a questioning air:

"Captain?
.
. ."
Patrice pretended not to understand:

"Yes, sir," he said, "we will take Mme.
Essarès away.
Her presence, as you say, is unnecessary.
Only I must first .
. ."
He moved aside to avoid his interlocutor, and, perceiving that the group of magistrates had opened out a little, stepped forward.
What he now saw explained Coralie's fainting-fit and the servant's agitation.
He himself felt his flesh creep at a spectacle which was infinitely more horrible than that of the evening before.
On the floor, near the fireplace, almost at the place where he had undergone his torture, Essarès Bey lay upon his back.
He was wearing the same clothes as on the previous day: a brown-velvet smoking-suit with a braided jacket.
His head and shoulders had been covered with a napkin.
But one of the men standing around, a divisional surgeon no doubt, was holding up the napkin with one hand and pointing to the dead man's face with the other, while he offered an explanation in a low voice.
And that face .
. .
but it was hardly the word for the unspeakable mass of flesh, part of which seemed to be charred while the other part formed no more than a bloodstained pulp, mixed with bits of bone and skin, hairs and a broken eye-ball.
"Oh," Patrice blurted out, "how horrible!
He was killed and fell with his head right in the fire.
That's how they found him, I suppose?"
The man who had already spoken to him and who appeared to be the most important figure present came up to him once more:

"May I ask who you are?"
he demanded.
"Captain Belval, sir, a friend of Mme.
Essarès, one of the wounded officers whose lives she has helped to save .
. ."
"That may be, sir," replied the important figure, "but you can't stay here.
Nobody must stay here, for that matter.
Monsieur le commissaire, please order every one to leave the room, except the doctor, and have the door guarded.
Let no one enter on any pretext whatever.
.
. ."
"Sir," Patrice insisted, "I have some very serious information to communicate."
"I shall be pleased to receive it, captain, but later on.
You must excuse me now."
VII

TWENTY-THREE MINUTES PAST TWELVE

The great hall that ran from Rue Raynouard to the upper terrace of the garden was filled to half its extent by a wide staircase and divided the Essarès house into two parts communicating only by way of the hall.
On the left were the drawing-room and the library, which was followed by an independent block containing a private staircase.
On the right were a billiard-room and the dining-room, both with lower ceilings.
Above these were Essarès Bey's bedroom, on the street side, and Coralie's, overlooking the garden.
Beyond was the servants' wing, where old Siméon also used to sleep.
Patrice was asked to wait in the billiard-room, with the Senegalese.
He had been there about a quarter of an hour when Siméon and the maid were shown in.
The old secretary seemed quite paralyzed by the death of his employer and was holding forth under his breath, making queer gestures as he spoke.
Patrice asked him how things were going; and the old fellow whispered in his ear:

"It's not over yet .
. .
There's something to fear .
. .
to fear!
.
. .
To-day .
. .
presently."
"Presently?"
asked Patrice.
"Yes .
. .
yes," said the old man, trembling.
He said nothing more.
As for the housemaid, she readily told her story in reply to Patrice' questions:

"The first surprise, sir, this morning was that there was no butler, no footman, no porter.
All the three were gone.
Then, at half-past six, M. Siméon came and told us from the master that the master had locked himself in his library and that he wasn't to be disturbed even for breakfast.
The mistress was not very well.
She had her chocolate at nine o'clock.
.
. .
At ten o'clock she went out with M. Siméon.
Then, after we had done the bedrooms, we never left the kitchen.
Eleven o'clock came, twelve .
. .
and, just as the hour was striking, we heard a loud ring at the front-door.
I looked out of the window.
There was a motor, with four gentlemen inside.
I went to the door.
The commissary of police explained who he was and wanted to see the master.
I showed them the way.
The library-door was locked.
We knocked: no answer.
We shook it: no answer.
In the end, one of the gentlemen, who knew how, picked the lock.
.
. .
Then .
. .
then .
. .
you can imagine what we saw.
.
. .
But you can't, it was much worse, because the poor master at that moment had his head almost under the grate.
.
. .
Oh, what scoundrels they must have been!
.
. .
For they did kill him, didn't they?
I know one of the gentlemen said at once that the master had died of a stroke and fallen into the fire.
Only my firm belief is .
. ."
Old Siméon had listened without speaking, with his head still half wrapped up, showing only his bristly gray beard and his eyes hidden behind their yellow spectacles.
But at this point of the story he gave a little chuckle, came up to Patrice and said in his ear:

"There's something to fear .
. .
to fear!
.
. .
Mme.
Coralie.
.
. .
Make her go away at once .
. .
make her go away.
.
. .
If not, it'll be the worse for her.
.
. ."
Patrice shuddered and tried to question him, but could learn nothing more.
Besides, the old man did not remain.
A policeman came to fetch him and took him to the library.
His evidence lasted a long time.
It was followed by the depositions of the cook and the housemaid.
Next, Coralie's evidence was taken, in her own room.
At four o'clock another car arrived.
Patrice saw two gentlemen pass into the hall, with everybody bowing very low before them.
He recognized the minister of justice and the minister of the interior.
They conferred in the library for half an hour and went away again.
At last, shortly before five o'clock, a policeman came for Patrice and showed him up to the first floor.
The man tapped at a door and stood aside.
Patrice entered a small boudoir, lit up by a wood fire by which two persons were seated: Coralie, to whom he bowed, and, opposite her, the gentleman who had spoken to him on his arrival and who seemed to be directing the whole enquiry.
He was a man of about fifty, with a thickset body and a heavy face, slow of movement, but with bright, intelligent eyes.
"The examining-magistrate, I presume, sir?"
asked Patrice.
"No," he replied, "I am M. Masseron, a retired magistrate, specially appointed to clear up this affair .
. .
not to examine it, as you think, for it does not seem to me that there is anything to examine."
"What?"
cried Patrice, in great surprise.
"Nothing to examine?"
He looked at Coralie, who kept her eyes fixed upon him attentively.
Then she turned them on M. Masseron, who resumed:

"I have no doubt, Captain Belval, that, when we have said what we have to say, we shall be agreed at all points .
. .
just as madame and I are already agreed."
"I don't doubt it either," said Patrice.
"All the same, I am afraid that many of those points remain unexplained."
"Certainly, but we shall find an explanation, we shall find it together.
Will you please tell me what you know?"
Patrice waited for a moment and then said:

"I will not disguise my astonishment, sir.
The story which I have to tell is of some importance; and yet there is no one here to take it down.
Is it not to count as evidence given on oath, as a deposition which I shall have to sign?"
"You yourself, captain, shall determine the value of your words and the innuendo which you wish them to bear.
For the moment, we will look on this as a preliminary conversation, as an exchange of views relating to facts .
. .
touching which Mme.
Essarès has given me, I believe, the same information that you will be able to give me."
Patrice did not reply at once.
He had a vague impression that there was a private understanding between Coralie and the magistrate and that, in face of that understanding, he, both by his presence and by his zeal, was playing the part of an intruder whom they would gladly have dismissed.
He resolved therefore to maintain an attitude of reserve until the magistrate had shown his hand.
"Of course," he said, "I daresay madame has told you.
So you know of the conversation which I overheard yesterday at the restaurant?"
"Yes."
"And the attempt to kidnap Mme.
Essarès?"
"Yes."
"And the murder?
.
. ."
"Yes."
"Mme.
Essarès has described to you the blackmailing scene that took place last night, with M. Essarès for a victim, the details of the torture, the death of the colonel, the handing over of the four millions, the conversation on the telephone between M. Essarès and a certain Grégoire and, lastly, the threats uttered against madame by her husband?"
"Yes, Captain Belval, I know all this, that is to say, all that you know; and I know, in addition, all that I discovered through my own investigations."
"Of course, of course," Patrice repeated.
"I see that my story becomes superfluous and that you are in possession of all the necessary factors to enable you to draw your conclusions."
And, continuing to put rather than answer questions, he added, "May I ask what inference you have arrived at?"
"To tell you the truth, captain, my inferences are not definite.
However, until I receive some proof to the contrary, I propose to remain satisfied with the actual words of a letter which M. Essarès wrote to his wife at about twelve o'clock this morning and which we found lying on his desk, unfinished.
Mme.
Essarès asked me to read it and, if necessary, to communicate the contents to you.
Listen."
M. Masseron proceeded to read the letter aloud:

"_Coralie_,

"You were wrong yesterday to attribute my departure to       reasons which I dared not acknowledge; and perhaps I       also was wrong not to defend myself more convincingly       against your accusation.
The only motive for my       departure is the hatred with which I am surrounded.
You have seen how fierce it is.
In the face of these       enemies who are seeking to despoil me by every       possible means, my only hope of salvation lies in       flight.
That is why I am going away.
"But let me remind you, Coralie, of my clearly       expressed wish.
You are to join me at the first       summons.
If you do not leave Paris then, nothing shall       protect you against my lawful resentment: nothing, not       even my death.
I have made all my arrangements so       that, even in the contingency .
. ."
"The letter ends there," said M. Masseron, handing it back to Coralie, "and we know by an unimpeachable sign that the last lines were written immediately before M. Essarès' death, because, in falling, he upset a little clock which stood on his desk and which marked twenty-three minutes past twelve.
I assume that he felt unwell and that, on trying to rise, he was seized with a fit of giddiness and fell to the floor.
Unfortunately, the fireplace was near, with a fierce fire blazing in it; his head struck the grate; and the wound that resulted was so deep--the surgeon testified to this--that he fainted.
Then the fire close at hand did its work .
. .
with the effects which you have seen.
.
. ."
Patrice had listened in amazement to this unexpected explanation:

"Then in your opinion," he asked, "M. Essarès died of an accident?
He was not murdered?"
"Murdered?
Certainly not!
We have no clue to support any such theory."
"Still .
. ."
"Captain Belval, you are the victim of an association of ideas which, I admit, is perfectly justifiable.
Ever since yesterday you have been witnessing a series of tragic incidents; and your imagination naturally leads you to the most tragic solution, that of murder.
Only--reflect--why should a murder have been committed?
And by whom?
By Bournef and his friends?
With what object?
They were crammed full with bank-notes; and, even admitting that the man called Grégoire recovered those millions from them, they would certainly not have got them back by killing M. Essarès.
Then again, how would they have entered the house?
And how can they have gone out?
.
. .
No, captain, you must excuse me, but M. Essarès died an accidental death.
The facts are undeniable; and this is the opinion of the divisional surgeon, who will draw up his report in that sense."
Patrice turned to Coralie:

"Is it Mme.
Essarès' opinion also?"
She reddened slightly and answered:

"Yes."
"And old Siméon's?"
"Oh," replied the magistrate, "old Siméon is wandering in his mind!
To listen to him, you would think that everything was about to happen all over again, that Mme.
Essarès is threatened with danger and that she ought to take to flight at once.
That is all that I have been able to get out of him.
However, he took me to an old disused door that opens out of the garden on a lane running at right angles with the Rue Raynouard; and here he showed me first the watch-dog's dead body and next some footprints between the door and the flight of steps near the library.
But you know those foot-prints, do you not?
They belong to you and your Senegalese.
As for the death of the watch-dog, I can put that down to your Senegalese, can't I?"
Patrice was beginning to understand.
The magistrate's reticence, his explanation, his agreement with Coralie: all this was gradually becoming plain.
He put the question frankly:

"So there was no murder?"
"No."
"Then there will be no magistrate's examination?"
"No."
"And no talk about the matter; it will all be kept quiet, in short, and forgotten?"
"Just so."
Captain Belval began to walk up and down, as was his habit.
He now remembered Essarès' prophecy:

"I sha'n't be arrested.
.
. .
If I am, I shall be let go.
.
. .
The matter will be hushed up.
.
. ."
Essarès was right.
The hand of justice was arrested; and there was no way for Coralie to escape silent complicity.
Patrice was intensely annoyed by the manner in which the case was being handled.
It was certain that a compact had been concluded between Coralie and M. Masseron.
He suspected the magistrate of circumventing Coralie and inducing her to sacrifice her own interests to other considerations.
To effect this, the first thing was to get rid of him, Patrice.
"Ugh!"
said Patrice to himself.
"I'm fairly sick of this sportsman, with his cool ironical ways.
It looks as if he were doing a considerable piece of thimblerigging at my expense."
He restrained himself, however, and, with a pretense of wanting to keep on good terms with the magistrate, came and sat down beside him:

"You must forgive me, sir," he said, "for insisting in what may appear to you an indiscreet fashion.
But my conduct is explained not only by such sympathy or feeling as I entertain for Mme.
Essarès at a moment in her life when she is more lonely than ever, a sympathy and feeling which she seems to repulse even more firmly than she did before.
It is also explained by certain mysterious links which unite us to each other and which go back to a period too remote for our eyes to focus.
Has Mme.
Essarès told you those details?
In my opinion, they are most important; and I cannot help associating them with the events that interest us."
M. Masseron glanced at Coralie, who nodded.
He answered:

"Yes, Mme.
Essarès has informed me and even .
. ."
He hesitated once more and again consulted Coralie, who flushed and seemed put out of countenance.
M. Masseron, however, waited for a reply which would enable him to proceed.
She ended by saying, in a low voice:

"Captain Belval is entitled to know what we have discovered.
The truth belongs as much to him as to me; and I have no right to keep it from him.
Pray speak, monsieur."
"I doubt if it is even necessary to speak," said the magistrate.
"It will be enough, I think, to show the captain this photograph-album which I have found.
Here you are, Captain Belval."
And he handed Patrice a very slender album, covered in gray canvas and fastened with an india-rubber band.
Patrice took it with a certain anxiety.
But what he saw on opening it was so utterly unexpected that he gave an exclamation:

"It's incredible!"
On the first page, held in place by their four corners, were two photographs: one, on the right, representing a small boy in an Eton jacket; the other, on the left, representing a very little girl.
There was an inscription under each.
On the right: "Patrice, at ten."
On the left: "Coralie, at three."
Moved beyond expression, Patrice turned the leaf.
On the second page they appeared again, he at the age of fifteen, she at the age of eight.
And he saw himself at nineteen and at twenty-three and at twenty-eight, always accompanied by Coralie, first as a little girl, then as a young girl, next as a woman.
"This is incredible!"
he cried.
"How is it possible?
Here are portraits of myself which I had never seen, amateur photographs obviously, which trace my whole life.
Here's one when I was doing my military training.
.
. .
Here I am on horseback .
. .
Who can have ordered these photographs?
And who can have collected them together with yours, madame?"
He fixed his eyes on Coralie, who evaded their questioning gaze and lowered her head as though the close connection between their two lives, to which those pages bore witness, had shaken her to the very depths of her being.
"Who can have brought them together?"
he repeated.
"Do you know?
And where does the album come from?"
M. Masseron supplied the answer:

"It was the surgeon who found it.
M. Essarès wore a vest under his shirt; and the album was in an inner pocket, a pocket sewn inside the vest.
The surgeon felt the boards through it when he was undressing M. Essarès' body."
This time, Patrice's and Coralie's eyes met.
The thought that M. Essarès had been collecting both their photographs during the past twenty years and that he wore them next to his breast and that he had lived and died with them upon him, this thought amazed them so much that they did not even try to fathom its strange significance.
"Are you sure of what you are saying, sir?"
asked Patrice.
"I was there," said M. Masseron.
"I was present at the discovery.
Besides, I myself made another which confirms this one and completes it in a really surprising fashion.
I found a pendant, cut out of a solid block of amethyst and held in a setting of filigree-work."
"What's that?"
cried Captain Belval.
"What's that?
A pendant?
An amethyst pendant?"
"Look for yourself, sir," suggested the magistrate, after once more consulting Mme.
Essarès with a glance.
And he handed Captain Belval an amethyst pendant, larger than the ball formed by joining the two halves which Coralie and Patrice possessed, she on her rosary and he on his bunch of seals; and this new ball was encircled with a specimen of gold filigree-work exactly like that on the rosary and on the seal.
The setting served as a clasp.
"Am I to open it?"
he asked.
Coralie nodded.
He opened the pendant.
The inside was divided by a movable glass disk, which separated two miniature photographs, one of Coralie as a nurse, the other of himself, wounded, in an officer's uniform.
Patrice reflected, with pale cheeks.
Presently he asked:

"And where does this pendant come from?
Did you find it, sir?"
"Yes, Captain Belval."
"Where?"
The magistrate seemed to hesitate.
Coralie's attitude gave Patrice the impression that she was unaware of this detail.
M. Masseron at last said:

"I found it in the dead man's hand."
"In the dead man's hand?
In M. Essarès' hand?"
Patrice had given a start, as though under an unexpected blow, and was now leaning over the magistrate, greedily awaiting a reply which he wanted to hear for the second time before accepting it as certain.
"Yes, in his hand.
I had to force back the clasped fingers in order to release it."
Belval stood up and, striking the table with his fist, exclaimed:

"Well, sir, I will tell you one thing which I was keeping back as a last argument to prove to you that my collaboration is of use; and this thing becomes of great importance after what we have just learnt.
Sir, this morning some one asked to speak to me on the telephone; and I had hardly answered the call when this person, who seemed greatly excited, was the victim of a murderous assault, committed in my hearing.
And, amid the sound of the scuffle and the cries of agony, I caught the following words, which the unhappy man insisted on trying to get to me as so many last instructions: 'Patrice!
.
. .
Coralie!
.
. .
The amethyst pendant.
.
. .
Yes, I have it on me.
.
. .
The pendant.
.
. .
Ah, it's too late!
.
. .
I should so much have liked.
.
. .
Patrice.
.
. .
Coralie.
.
. .'
There's what I heard, sir, and here are the two facts which we cannot escape.
This morning, at nineteen minutes past seven, a man was murdered having upon him an amethyst pendant.
This is the first undeniable fact.
A few hours later, at twenty-three minutes past twelve, this same amethyst pendant is discovered clutched in the hand of another man.
This is the second undeniable fact.
Place these facts side by side and you are bound to come to the conclusion that the first murder, the one of which I caught the distant echo, was committed here, in this house, in the same library which, since yesterday evening, witnessed the end of every scene in the tragedy which we are contemplating."
This revelation, which in reality amounted to a fresh accusation against Essarès, seemed to affect the magistrate profoundly.
Patrice had flung himself into the discussion with a passionate vehemence and a logical reasoning which it was impossible to disregard without evident insincerity.
Coralie had turned aside slightly and Patrice could not see her face; but he suspected her dismay in the presence of all this infamy and shame.
M. Masseron raised an objection:

"Two undeniable facts, you say, Captain Belval?
As to the first point, let me remark that we have not found the body of the man who is supposed to have been murdered at nineteen minutes past seven this morning."
"It will be found in due course."
"Very well.
Second point: as regards the amethyst pendant discovered in Essarès' hand, how can we tell that Essarès Bey found it in the murdered man's hand and not somewhere else?
For, after all, we do not know if he was at home at that time and still less if he was in his library."
"But I do know."
"How?"
"I telephoned to him a few minutes later and he answered.
More than that, to sweep away any trace of doubt, he told me that he had rung me up but that he had been cut off."
M. Masseron thought for a moment and then said:

"Did he go out this morning?"
"Ask Mme.
Essarès."
Without turning round, manifestly wishing to avoid Belval's eyes, Coralie answered:

"I don't think that he went out.
The suit he was wearing at the time of his death was an indoor suit."
"Did you see him after last night?"
"He came and knocked at my room three times this morning, between seven and nine o'clock.
I did not open the door.
At about eleven o'clock I started off alone; I heard him call old Siméon and tell him to go with me.
Siméon caught me up in the street.
That is all I know."
A prolonged silence ensued.
Each of the three was meditating upon this strange series of adventures.
In the end, M. Masseron, who had realized that a man of Captain Belval's stamp was not the sort to be easily thrust aside, spoke in the tone of one who, before coming to terms, wishes to know exactly what his adversary's last word is likely to be:

"Let us come to the point, captain.
You are building up a theory which strikes me as very vague.
What is it precisely?
And what are you proposing to do if I decline to accept it?
I have asked you two very plain questions.
Do you mind answering them?"
"I will answer them, sir, as plainly as you put them."
He went up to the magistrate and said:

"Here, sir, is the field of battle and of attack--yes, of attack, if need be--which I select.
A man who used to know me, who knew Mme.
Essarès as a child and who was interested in both of us, a man who used to collect our portraits at different ages, who had reasons for loving us unknown to me, who sent me the key of that garden and who was making arrangements to bring us together for a purpose which he would have told us, this man was murdered at the moment when he was about to execute his plan.
Now everything tells me that he was murdered by M. Essarès.
I am therefore resolved to lodge an information, whatever the results of my action may be.
And believe me, sir, my charge will not be hushed up.
There are always means of making one's self heard .
. .
even if I am reduced to shouting the truth from the house-tops."
M. Masseron burst out laughing:

"By Jove, captain, but you're letting yourself go!"
"I'm behaving according to my conscience; and Mme.
Essarès, I feel sure, will forgive me.
She knows that I am acting for her good.
She knows that all will be over with her if this case is hushed up and if the authorities do not assist her.
She knows that the enemies who threaten her are implacable.
They will stop at nothing to attain their object and to do away with her, for she stands in their way.
And the terrible thing about it is that the most clear-seeing eyes are unable to make out what that object is.
We are playing the most formidable game against these enemies; and we do not even know what the stakes are.
Only the police can discover those stakes."
M. Masseron waited for a second or two and then, laying his hand on Patrice's shoulder, said, calmly:

"And, suppose the authorities knew what the stakes were?"
Patrice looked at him in surprise:

"What?
Do you mean to say you know?"
"Perhaps."
"And can you tell me?"
"Oh, well, if you force me to!"
"What are they?"
"Not much!
A trifle!"
"But what sort of trifle?"
"A thousand million francs."
"A thousand millions?"
"Just that.
A thousand millions, of which two-thirds, I regret to say, if not three-quarters, had already left France before the war.
But the remaining two hundred and fifty or three hundred millions are worth more than a thousand millions all the same, for a very good reason."
"What reason?"
"They happen to be in gold."
CHAPTER VIII

ESSARÈS BEY'S WORK

This time Captain Belval seemed to relax to some extent.
He vaguely perceived the consideration that compelled the authorities to wage the battle prudently.
"Are you sure?"
he asked.
"Yes, I was instructed to investigate this matter two years ago; and my enquiries proved that really remarkable exports of gold were being effected from France.
But, I confess, it is only since my conversation with Mme.
Essarès that I have seen where the leakage came from and who it was that set on foot, all over France, down to the least important market-towns, the formidable organization through which the indispensable metal was made to leave the country."
"Then Mme.
Essarès knew?"
"No, but she suspected a great deal; and last night, before you arrived, she overheard some words spoken between Essarès and his assailants which she repeated to me, thus giving me the key to the riddle.
I should have been glad to work out the complete solution without your assistance--for one thing, those were the orders of the minister of the interior; and Mme.
Essarès displayed the same wish--but your impetuosity overcomes my hesitation; and, since I can't manage to get rid of you, Captain Belval, I will tell you the whole story frankly .
. .
especially as your cooperation is not to be despised."
"I am all ears," said Patrice, who was burning to know more.
"Well, the motive force of the plot was here, in this house.
Essarès Bey, president of the Franco-Oriental Bank, 6, Rue Lafayette, apparently an Egyptian, in reality a Turk, enjoyed the greatest influence in the Paris financial world.
He had been naturalized an Englishman, but had kept up secret relations with the former possessors of Egypt; and he had received instructions from a foreign power, which I am not yet able to name with certainty, to bleed--there is no other word for it--to bleed France of all the gold that he could cause to flow into his coffers.
According to documents which I have seen, he succeeded in exporting in this way some seven hundred million francs in two years.
A last consignment was preparing when war was declared.
You can understand that thenceforth such important sums could not be smuggled out of the country so easily as in times of peace.
The railway-wagons are inspected on the frontiers; the outgoing vessels are searched in the harbors.
In short, the gold was not sent away.
Those two hundred and fifty or three hundred millions remained in France.
Ten months passed; and the inevitable happened, which was that Essarès Bey, having this fabulous treasure at his disposal, clung to it, came gradually to look upon it as his own and, in the end, resolved to appropriate it.
Only there were accomplices.
.
. ."
"The men I saw last night?"
"Yes, half-a-dozen shady Levantines, sham naturalized French citizens, more or less well-disguised Bulgarians, secret agents of the little German courts in the Balkans.
This gang ran provincial branches of Essarès' bank.
It had in its pay, on Essarès' account, hundreds of minor agents, who scoured the villages, visited the fairs, were hail-fellow-well-met with the peasants, offered them bank-notes and government securities in exchange for French gold and trousered all their savings.
When war broke out the gang shut up shop and gathered round Essarès Bey, who also had closed his offices in the Rue Lafayette."
"What happened then?"
"Things that we don't know.
No doubt the accomplices learnt from their governments that the last despatch of gold had never taken place; and no doubt they also guessed that Essarès Bey was trying to keep for himself the three hundred millions collected by the gang.
One thing is certain, that a struggle began between the former partners, a fierce, implacable struggle, the accomplices wanting their share of the plunder, while Essarès Bey was resolved to part with none of it and pretended that the millions had left the country.
Yesterday the struggle attained its culminating-point.
In the afternoon the accomplices tried to get hold of Mme.
Essarès so that they might have a hostage to use against her husband.
In the evening .
. .
in the evening you yourself witnessed the final episode."
"But why yesterday evening rather than another?"
"Because the accomplices had every reason to think that the millions were intended to disappear yesterday evening.
Though they did not know the methods employed by Essarès Bey when he made his last remittances, they believed that each of the remittances, or rather each removal of the sacks, was preceded by a signal."
"Yes, a shower of sparks, was it not?"
"Exactly.
In a corner of the garden are some old conservatories, above which stands the furnace that used to heat them.
This grimy furnace, full of soot and rubbish, sends forth, when you light it, flakes of fire and sparks which are seen at a distance and serve as an intimation.
Essarès Bey lit it last night himself.
The accomplices at once took alarm and came prepared to go any lengths."
"And Essarès' plan failed."
"Yes.
But so did theirs.
The colonel is dead.
The others were only able to get hold of a few bundles of notes which have probably been taken from them by this time.
But the struggle was not finished; and its dying agony has been a most shocking tragedy.
According to your statement, a man who knew you and who was seeking to get into touch with you, was killed at nineteen minutes past seven, most likely by Essarès Bey, who dreaded his intervention.
And, five hours later, at twenty-three past twelve, Essarès Bey himself was murdered, presumably by one of his accomplices.
There is the whole story, Captain Belval.
And, now that you know as much of it as I do, don't you think that the investigation of this case should remain secret and be pursued not quite in accordance with the ordinary rules?"
After a moment's reflection Patrice said:

"Yes, I agree."
"There can be no doubt about it!"
cried M. Masseron.
"Not only will it serve no purpose to publish this story of gold which has disappeared and which can't be found, which would startle the public and excite their imaginations, but you will readily imagine that an operation which consisted in draining off such a quantity of gold in two years cannot have been effected without compromising a regrettable number of people.
I feel certain that my own enquiries will reveal a series of weak concessions and unworthy bargains on the part of certain more or less important banks and credit-houses, transactions on which I do not wish to insist, but which it would be the gravest of blunders to publish.
Therefore, silence."
"But is silence possible?"
"Why not?"
"Bless my soul, there are a good few corpses to be explained away!
Colonel Fakhi's, for instance?"
"Suicide."
"Mustapha's, which you will discover or which you have already discovered in the Galliéra garden?"
"Found dead."
"Essarès Bey's?"
"An accident."
"So that all these manifestations of the same power will remain separated?"
"There is nothing to show the link that connects them."
"Perhaps the public will think otherwise."
"The public will think what we wish it to think.
This is war-time."
"The press will speak."
"The press will do nothing of the kind.
We have the censorship."
"But, if some fact or, rather, a fresh crime .
. . ?"
"Why should there be a fresh crime?
The matter is finished, at least on its active and dramatic side.
The chief actors are dead.
The curtain falls on the murder of Essarès Bey.
As for the supernumeraries, Bournef and the others, we shall have them stowed away in an internment-camp before a week is past.
We therefore find ourselves in the presence of a certain number of millions, with no owner, with no one who dares to claim them, on which France is entitled to lay hands.
I shall devote my activity to securing the money for the republic."
Patrice Belval shook his head:

"Mme.
Essarès remains, sir.
We must not forget her husband's threats."
"He is dead."
"No matter, the threats are there.
Old Siméon tells you so in a striking fashion."
"He's half mad."
"Exactly, his brain retains the impression of great and imminent danger.
No, the struggle is not ended.
Perhaps indeed it is only beginning."
"Well, captain, are we not here?
Make it your business to protect and defend Mme.
Essarès by all the means in your power and by all those which I place at your disposal.
Our collaboration will be uninterrupted, because my task lies here and because, if the battle--which you expect and I do not--takes place, it will be within the walls of this house and garden."
"What makes you think that?"
"Some words which Mme.
Essarès overheard last night.
The colonel repeated several times, 'The gold is here, Essarès.'
He added, 'For years past, your car brought to this house all that there was at your bank in the Rue Lafayette.
Siméon, you and the chauffeur used to let the sacks down the last grating on the left.
How you used to send it away I do not know.
But of what was here on the day when the war broke out, of the seventeen or eighteen hundred bags which they were expecting out yonder, none has left your place.
I suspected the trick; and we kept watch night and day.
The gold is here.'"
"And have you no clue?"
"Not one.
Or this at most; but I attach comparatively little value to it."
He took a crumpled paper from his pocket, unfolded it and continued:

"Besides the pendant, Essarès Bey held in his hand this bit of blotted paper, on which you can see a few straggling, hurriedly-written words.
The only ones that are more or less legible are these: 'golden triangle.'
What this golden triangle means, what it has to do with the case in hand, I can't for the present tell.
The most that I am able to presume is that, like the pendant, the scrap of paper was snatched by Essarès Bey from the man who died at nineteen minutes past seven this morning and that, when he himself was killed at twenty-three minutes past twelve, he was occupied in examining it."
"And then there is the album," said Patrice, making his last point.
"You see how all the details are linked together.
You may safely believe that it is all one case."
"Very well," said M. Masseron.
"One case in two parts.
You, captain, had better follow up the second.
I grant you that nothing could be stranger than this discovery of photographs of Mme.
Essarès and yourself in the same album and in the same pendant.
It sets a problem the solution of which will no doubt bring us very near to the truth.
We shall meet again soon, Captain Belval, I hope.
And, once more, make use of me and of my men."
He shook Patrice by the hand.
Patrice held him back:

"I shall make use of you, sir, as you suggest.
But is this not the time to take the necessary precautions?"
"They are taken, captain.
We are in occupation of the house."
"Yes .
. .
yes .
. .
I know; but, all the same .
. .
I have a sort of presentiment that the day will not end without.
.
. .
Remember old Siméon's strange words.
.
. ."
M. Masseron began to laugh:

"Come, Captain Belval, we mustn't exaggerate things.
If any enemies remain for us to fight, they must stand in great need, for the moment, of taking council with themselves.
We'll talk about this to-morrow, shall we, captain?"
He shook hands with Patrice again, bowed to Mme.
Essarès and left the room.
Belval had at first made a discreet movement to go out with him.
He stopped at the door and walked back again.
Mme.
Essarès, who seemed not to hear him, sat motionless, bent in two, with her head turned away from him.
"Coralie," he said.
She did not reply; and he uttered her name a second time, hoping that again she might not answer, for her silence suddenly appeared to him to be the one thing in the world for him to desire.
That silence no longer implied either constraint or rebellion.
Coralie accepted the fact that he was there, by her side, as a helpful friend.
And Patrice no longer thought of all the problems that harassed him, nor of the murders that had mounted up, one after another, around them, nor of the dangers that might still encompass them.
He thought only of Coralie's yielding gentleness.
"Don't answer, Coralie, don't say a word.
It is for me to speak.
I must tell you what you do not know, the reasons that made you wish to keep me out of this house .
. .
out of this house and out of your very life."
He put his hand on the back of the chair in which she was sitting; and his hand just touched Coralie's hair.
"Coralie, you imagine that it is the shame of your life here that keeps you away from me.
You blush at having been that man's wife; and this makes you feel troubled and anxious, as though you yourself had been guilty.
But why should you?
It was not your fault.
Surely you know that I can guess the misery and hatred that must have passed between you and him and the constraint that was brought to bear upon you, by some machination, in order to force your consent to the marriage!
No, Coralie, there is something else; and I will tell you what it is.
There is something else.
.
. ."
He was bending over her still more.
He saw her beautiful profile lit up by the blazing logs and, speaking with increasing fervor and adopting the familiar _tu_ and _toi_ which, in his mouth, retained a note of affectionate respect, he cried:

"Am I to speak, Little Mother Coralie?
I needn't, need I?
You have understood; and you read yourself clearly.
Ah, I feel you trembling from head to foot!
Yes, yes, I tell you, I knew your secret from the very first day.
From the very first day you loved your great beggar of a wounded man, all scarred and maimed though he was.
Hush!
Don't deny it!
.
. .
Yes, I understand: you are rather shocked to hear such words as these spoken to-day.
I ought perhaps to have waited.
And yet why should I?
I am asking you nothing.
I know; and that is enough for me.
I sha'n't speak of it again for a long time to come, until the inevitable hour arrives when you are forced to tell it to me yourself.
Till then I shall keep silence.
But our love will always be between us; and it will be exquisite, Little Mother Coralie, it will be exquisite for me to know that you love me.
Coralie.
.
. .
There, now you're crying!
And you would still deny the truth?
Why, when you cry--I know you, Little Mother--it means that your dear heart is overflowing with tenderness and love!
You are crying?
Ah, Little Mother, I never thought you loved me to that extent!"
Patrice also had tears in his eyes.
Coralie's were coursing down her pale cheeks; and he would have given much to kiss that wet face.
But the least outward sign of affection appeared to him an offense at such a moment.
He was content to gaze at her passionately.
And, as he did so, he received an impression that her thoughts were becoming detached from his own, that her eyes were being attracted by an unexpected sight and that, amid the great silence of their love, she was listening to something that he himself had not heard.
And suddenly he too heard that thing, though it was almost imperceptible.
It was not so much a sound as the sensation of a presence mingling with the distant rumble of the town.
What could be happening?
The light had begun to fade, without his noticing it.
Also unperceived by Patrice, Mme.
Essarès had opened the window a little way, for the boudoir was small and the heat of the fire was becoming oppressive.
Nevertheless, the two casements were almost touching.
It was at this that she was staring; and it was from there that the danger threatened.
Patrice's first impulse was to run to the window, but he restrained himself.
The danger was becoming defined.
Outside, in the twilight, he distinguished through the slanting panes a human form.
Next, he saw between the two casements something which gleamed in the light of the fire and which looked like the barrel of a revolver.
"Coralie is done for," he thought, "if I allow it to be suspected for an instant that I am on my guard."
She was in fact opposite the window, with no obstacle intervening.
He therefore said aloud, in a careless tone:

"Coralie, you must be a little tired.
We will say good-by."
At the same time, he went round her chair to protect her.
But he had not the time to complete his movement.
She also no doubt had seen the glint of the revolver, for she drew back abruptly, stammering:

"Oh, Patrice!
.
. .
Patrice!
.
. ."
Two shots rang out, followed by a moan.
"You're wounded!"
cried Patrice, springing to her side.
"No, no," she said, "but the fright .
. ."
"Oh, if he's touched you, the scoundrel!"
"No, he hasn't."
"Are you quite sure?"
He lost thirty or forty seconds, switching on the electric light, looking at Coralie for signs of a wound and waiting in an agony of suspense for her to regain full consciousness.
Only then did he rush to the window, open it wide and climb over the balcony.
The room was on the first floor.
There was plenty of lattice-work on the wall.
But, because of his leg, Patrice had some difficulty in making his way down.
Below, on the terrace, he caught his foot in the rungs of an overturned ladder.
Next, he knocked against some policemen who were coming from the ground-floor.
One of them shouted:

"I saw the figure of a man making off that way."
"Which way?"
asked Patrice.
The man was running in the direction of the lane.
Patrice followed him.
But, at that moment, from close beside the little door, there came shrill cries and the whimper of a choking voice:

"Help!
.
. .
Help!
.
. ."
When Patrice came up, the policeman was already flashing his electric lantern over the ground; and they both saw a human form writhing in the shrubbery.
"The door's open!"
shouted Patrice.
"The assassin has escaped!
Go after him!"
The policeman vanished down the lane; and, Ya-Bon appearing on the scene, Patrice gave him his orders:

"Quick as you can, Ya-Bon!
.
. .
If the policeman is going up the lane, you go down.
Run!
I'll look after the victim."
All this time, Patrice was stooping low, flinging the light of the policeman's lantern on the man who lay struggling on the ground.
He recognized old Siméon, nearly strangled, with a red-silk cord round his neck.
"How do you feel?"
he asked.
"Can you understand what I'm saying?"
He unfastened the cord and repeated his question.
Siméon stuttered out a series of incoherent syllables and then suddenly began to sing and laugh, a very low, jerky laugh, alternating with hiccoughs.
He had gone mad.
When M. Masseron arrived, Patrice told him what had happened:

"Do you really believe it's all over?"
he asked.
"No.
You were right and I was wrong," said M. Masseron.
"We must take every precaution to ensure Mme.
Essarès' safety.
The house shall be guarded all night."
A few minutes later the policeman and Ya-Bon returned, after a vain search.
The key that had served to open the door was found in the lane.
It was exactly similar to the one in Patrice Belval's possession, equally old and equally rusty.
The would-be murderer had thrown it away in the course of his flight.
*       *       *       *       *

It was seven o'clock when Patrice, accompanied by Ya-Bon, left the house in the Rue Raynouard and turned towards Neuilly.
As usual, Patrice took Ya-Bon's arm and, leaning upon him for support as he walked, he said:

"I can guess what you're thinking, Ya-Bon."
Ya-Bon grunted.
"That's it," said Captain Belval, in a tone of approval.
"We are entirely in agreement all along the line.
What strikes you first and foremost is the utter incapacity displayed by the police.
A pack of addle-pates, you say?
When you speak like that, Master Ya-Bon, you are talking impertinent nonsense, which, coming from you, does not astonish me and which might easily make me give you the punishment you deserve.
But we will overlook it this time.
Whatever you may say, the police do what they can, not to mention that, in war-time, they have other things to do than to occupy themselves with the mysterious relations between Captain Belval and Mme.
Essarès.
It is I therefore who will have to act; and I have hardly any one to reckon on but myself.
Well, I wonder if I am a match for such adversaries.
To think that here's one who has the cheek to come back to the house while it is being watched by the police, to put up a ladder, to listen no doubt to my conversation with M. Masseron and afterwards to what I said to Little Mother Coralie and, lastly, to send a couple of bullets whizzing past our ears!
What do you say?
Am I the man for the job?
And could all the French police, overworked as they are, give me the indispensable assistance?
No, the man I need for clearing up a thing like this is an exceptional sort of chap, one who unites every quality in himself, in short the type of man one never sees."
Patrice leant more heavily on his companion's arm:

"You, who know so many good people, haven't you the fellow I want concealed about your person?
A genius of sorts?
A demigod?"
Ya-Bon grunted again, merrily this time, and withdrew his arm.
He always carried a little electric lamp.
Switching on the light, he put the handle between his teeth.
Then he took a bit of chalk out of his jacket-pocket.
A grimy, weather-beaten plaster wall ran along the street.
Ya-Bon took his stand in front of the wall and, turning the light upon it, began to write with an unskilful hand, as though each letter cost him a measureless effort and as though the sum total of those letters were the only one that he had ever succeeded in composing and remembering.
In this way he wrote two words which Patrice read out:

_Arsène Lupin._

"Arsène Lupin," said Patrice, under his breath.
And, looking at Ya-Bon in amazement, "Are you in your right mind?
What do you mean by Arsène Lupin?
Are you suggesting Arsène Lupin to me?"
Ya-Bon nodded his head.
"Arsène Lupin?
Do you know him?"
"Yes," Ya-Bon signified.
Patrice then remembered that the Senegalese used to spend his days at the hospital getting his good-natured comrades to read all the adventures of Arsène Lupin aloud to him; and he grinned:

"Yes, you know him as one knows somebody whose history one has read."
"No," protested Ya-Bon.
"Do you know him personally?"
"Yes."
"Get out, you silly fool!
Arsène Lupin is dead.
He threw himself into the sea from a rock;[2] and you pretend that you know him?"
[Footnote 2: _813_.
By Maurice Leblanc.
Translated by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos.]
"Yes."
"Do you mean to say that you have met him since he died?"
"Yes."
"By Jove!
And Master Ya-Bon's influence with Arsène Lupin is enough to make him come to life again and put himself out at a sign from Master Ya-Bon?"
"Yes."
"I say!
I had a high opinion of you as it was, but now there is nothing for me but to make you my bow.
A friend of the late Arsène Lupin!
We're going it!
.
. .
And how long will it take you to place his ghost at our disposal?
Six months?
Three months?
One month?
A fortnight?"
Ya-Bon made a gesture.
"About a fortnight," Captain Belval translated.
"Very well, evoke your friend's spirit; I shall be delighted to make his acquaintance.
Only, upon my word, you must have a very poor idea of me to imagine that I need a collaborator!
What next!
Do you take me for a helpless dunderhead?"
CHAPTER IX

PATRICE AND CORALIE

Everything happened as M. Masseron had foretold.
The press did not speak.
The public did not become excited.
The various deaths were casually paragraphed.
The funeral of Essarès Bey, the wealthy banker, passed unnoticed.
But, on the day following the funeral, after Captain Belval, with the support of the police, had made an application to the military authorities, a new order of things was established in the house in the Rue Raynouard.
It was recognized as Home No.
2 attached to the hospital in the Champs-Élysées; Mme.
Essarès was appointed matron; and it became the residence of Captain Belval and his seven wounded men exclusively.
Coralie, therefore, was the only woman remaining.
The cook and housemaid were sent away.
The seven cripples did all the work of the house.
One acted as hall-porter, another as cook, a third as butler.
Ya-Bon, promoted to parlor-maid, made it his business to wait on Little Mother Coralie.
At night he slept in the passage outside her door.
By day he mounted guard outside her window.
"Let no one near that door or that window!"
Patrice said to him.
"Let no one in!
You'll catch it if so much as a mosquito succeeds in entering her room."
Nevertheless, Patrice was not easy in his mind.
The enemy had given him too many proofs of reckless daring to let him imagine that he could take any steps to ensure her perfect protection.
Danger always creeps in where it is least expected; and it was all the more difficult to ward off in that no one knew whence it threatened.
Now that Essarès Bey was dead, who was continuing his work?
Who had inherited the task of revenge upon Coralie announced in his last letter?
M. Masseron had at once begun his work of investigation, but the dramatic side of the case seemed to leave him indifferent.
Since he had not found the body of the man whose dying cries reached Patrice Belval's ears, since he had discovered no clue to the mysterious assailant who had fired at Patrice and Coralie later in the day, since he was not able to trace where the assailant had obtained his ladder, he dropped these questions and confined his efforts entirely to the search of the eighteen hundred bags of gold.
These were all that concerned him.
"We have every reason to believe that they are here," he said, "between the four sides of the quadrilateral formed by the garden and the house.
Obviously, a bag of gold weighing a hundredweight does not take up as much room, by a long way, as a sack of coal of the same weight.
But, for all that, eighteen hundred bags represent a cubic content; and a content like that is not easily concealed."
In two days he had assured himself that the treasure was hidden neither in the house nor under the house.
On the evenings when Essarès Bey's car brought the gold out of the coffers of the Franco-Oriental Bank to the Rue Raynouard, Essarès, the chauffeur and the man known as Grégoire used to pass a thick wire through the grating of which the accomplices spoke.
This wire was found.
Along the wire ran hooks, which were also found; and on these the bags were slung and afterwards stacked in a large cellar situated exactly under the library.
It is needless to say that M. Masseron and his detectives devoted all their ingenuity and all the painstaking patience of which they were capable to the task of searching every corner of this cellar.
Their efforts only established beyond doubt that it contained no secret, save that of a staircase which ran down from the library and which was closed at the top by a trap-door concealed by the carpet.
In addition to the grating on the Rue Raynouard, there was another which overlooked the garden, on the level of the first terrace.
These two openings were barricaded on the inside by very heavy shutters, so that it was an easy matter to stack thousands and thousands of rouleaus of gold in the cellar before sending them away.
"But how were they sent away?"
M. Masseron wondered.
"That's the mystery.
And why this intermediate stage in the basement, in the Rue Raynouard?
Another mystery.
And now we have Fakhi, Bournef and Co. declaring that, this time, it was not sent away, that the gold is here and that it can be found for the searching.
We have searched the house.
There is still the garden.
Let us look there."
It was a beautiful old garden and had once formed part of the wide-stretching estate where people were in the habit, at the end of the eighteenth century, of going to drink the Passy waters.
With a two-hundred-yard frontage, it ran from the Rue Raynouard to the quay of the river-side and led, by four successive terraces, to an expanse of lawn as old as the rest of the garden, fringed with thickets of evergreens and shaded by groups of tall trees.
But the beauty of the garden lay chiefly in its four terraces and in the view which they afforded of the river, the low ground on the left bank and the distant hills.
They were united by twenty sets of steps; and twenty paths climbed from the one to the other, paths cut between the buttressing walls and sometimes hidden in the floods of ivy that dashed from top to bottom.
Here and there a statue stood out, a broken column, or the fragments of a capital.
The stone balcony that edged the upper terrace was still adorned with all its old terra-cotta vases.
On this terrace also were the ruins of two little round temples where, in the old days, the springs bubbled to the surface.
In front of the library windows was a circular basin, with in the center the figure of a child shooting a slender thread of water through the funnel of a shell.
It was the overflow from this basin, forming a little stream, that trickled over the rocks against which Patrice had stumbled on the first evening.
"Ten acres to explore before we've done," said M. Masseron to himself.
He employed upon this work, in addition to Belval's cripples, a dozen of his own detectives.
It was not a difficult business and was bound to lead to some definite result.
As M. Masseron never ceased saying, eighteen hundred bags cannot remain invisible.
An excavation leaves traces.
You want a hole to go in and out by.
But neither the grass of the lawns nor the sand of the paths showed any signs of earth recently disturbed.
The ivy?
The buttressing-walls?
The terraces?
Everything was inspected, but in vain.
Here and there, in cutting up the ground, old conduit pipes were found, running towards the Seine, and remains of aqueducts that had once served to carry off the Passy waters.
But there was no such thing as a cave, an underground chamber, a brick arch or anything that looked like a hiding-place.
Patrice and Coralie watched the progress of the search.
And yet, though they fully realized its importance and though, on the other hand, they were still feeling the strain of the recent dramatic hours, in reality they were engrossed only in the inexplicable problem of their fate; and their conversation nearly always turned upon the mystery of the past.
Coralie's mother was the daughter of a French consul at Salonica, where she married a very rich man of a certain age, called Count Odolavitch, the head of an ancient Servian family.
He died a year after Coralie was born.
The widow and child were at that time in France, at this same house in the Rue Raynouard, which Count Odolavitch had purchased through a young Egyptian called Essarès, his secretary and factotum.
Coralie here spent three years of her childhood.
Then she suddenly lost her mother and was left alone in the world.
Essarès took her to Salonica, to a surviving sister of her grandfather the consul, a woman many years younger than her brother.
This lady took charge of Coralie.
Unfortunately, she fell under Essarès' influence, signed papers and made her little grand-niece sign papers, until the child's whole fortune, administered by the Egyptian, gradually disappeared.
At last, when she was about seventeen, Coralie became the victim of an adventure which left the most hideous memory in her mind and which had a fatal effect on her life.
She was kidnaped one morning by a band of Turks on the plains of Salonica and spent a fortnight in the palace of the governor of the province, exposed to his desires.
Essarès released her.
But the release was brought about in so fantastic a fashion that Coralie must have often wondered afterwards whether the Turk and the Egyptian were not in collusion.
At any rate, sick in body and depressed in spirits, fearing a fresh assault upon her liberty and yielding to her aunt's wishes, a month later she married this Essarès, who had already been paying her his addresses and who now definitely assumed in her eyes the figure of a deliverer.
It was a hopeless union, the horror of which became manifest to her on the very day on which it was cemented.
Coralie was the wife of a man whom she hated and whose love only grew with the hatred and contempt which she showed for it.
Before the end of the year they came and took up their residence at the house in the Rue Raynouard.
Essarès, who had long ago established and was at that time managing the Salonica branch of the Franco-Oriental Bank, bought up almost all the shares of the bank itself, acquired the building in the Rue Lafayette for the head office, became one of the financial magnates of Paris and received the title of bey in Egypt.
This was the story which Coralie told Patrice one day in the beautiful garden at Passy; and, in this unhappy past which they explored together and compared with Patrice Belval's own, neither he nor Coralie was able to discover a single point that was common to both.
The two of them had lived in different parts of the world.
Not one name evoked the same recollection in their minds.
There was not a detail that enabled them to understand why each should possess a piece of the same amethyst bead nor why their joint images should be contained in the same medallion-pendant or stuck in the pages of the same album.
"Failing everything else," said Patrice, "we can explain that the pendant found in the hand of Essarès Bey was snatched by him from the unknown friend who was watching over us and whom he murdered.
But what about the album, which he wore in a pocket sewn inside his vest?"
Neither attempted to answer the question.
Then Patrice asked:

"Tell me about Siméon."
"Siméon has always lived here."
"Even in your mother's time?"
"No, it was one or two years after my mother's death and after I went to Salonica that Essarès put him to look after this property and keep it in good condition."
"Was he Essarès' secretary?"
"I never knew what his exact functions were.
But he was not Essarès' secretary, nor his confidant either.
They never talked together intimately.
He came to see us two or three times at Salonica.
I remember one of his visits.
I was quite a child and I heard him speaking to Essarès in a very angry tone, apparently threatening him."
"With what?"
"I don't know.
I know nothing at all about Siméon.
He kept himself very much to himself and was nearly always in the garden, smoking his pipe, dreaming, tending the trees and flowers, sometimes with the assistance of two or three gardeners whom he would send for."
"How did he behave to you?"
"Here again I can't give any definite impression.
We never talked; and his occupations very seldom brought him into contact with me.
Nevertheless I sometimes thought that his eyes used to seek me, through their yellow spectacles, with a certain persistency and perhaps even a certain interest.
Moreover, lately, he liked going with me to the hospital; and he would then, either there or on the way, show himself more attentive, more eager to please .
. .
so much so that I have been wondering this last day or two .
. ."
She hesitated for a moment, undecided whether to speak, and then continued:

"Yes, it's a very vague notion .
. .
but, all the same .
. .
Look here, there's one thing I forgot to tell you.
Do you know why I joined the hospital in the Champs-Élysées, the hospital where you were lying wounded and ill?
It was because Siméon took me there.
He knew that I wanted to become a nurse and he suggested this hospital.
.
. .
And then, if you think, later on, the photograph in the pendant, the one showing you in uniform and me as a nurse, can only have been taken at the hospital.
Well, of the people here, in this house, no one except Siméon ever went there.
.
. .
You will also remember that he used to come to Salonica, where he saw me as a child and afterwards as a girl, and that there also he may have taken the snapshots in the album.
So that, if we allow that he had some correspondent who on his side followed your footsteps in life, it would not be impossible to believe that the unknown friend whom you assume to have intervened between us, the one who sent you the key of the garden .
. ."
"Was old Siméon?"
Patrice interrupted.
"The theory won't hold water."
"Why not?"
"Because this friend is dead.
The man who, as you say, sought to intervene between us, who sent me the key of the garden, who called me to the telephone to tell me the truth, that man was murdered.
There is not the least doubt about it.
I heard the cries of a man who is being killed, dying cries, the cries which a man utters when at the moment of death."
"You can never be sure."
"I am, absolutely.
There is no shadow of doubt in my mind.
The man whom I call our unknown friend died before finishing his work; he died murdered, whereas Siméon is alive.
Besides," continued Patrice, "this man had a different voice from Siméon, a voice which I had never heard before and which I shall never hear again."
Coralie was convinced and did not insist.
They were seated on one of the benches in the garden, enjoying the bright April sunshine.
The buds of the chestnut-trees shone at the tips of the branches.
The heavy scent of the wall-flowers rose from the borders; and their brown and yellow blossoms, like a cluster of bees and wasps pressed close together, swayed to the light breeze.
Suddenly Patrice felt a thrill.
Coralie had placed her hand on his, with engaging friendliness; and, when he turned to look at her, he saw that she was in tears.
"What's the matter, Little Mother Coralie?"
Coralie's head bent down and her cheek touched the officer's shoulder.
He dared not move.
She was treating him as a protecting elder brother; and he shrank from showing any warmth of affection that might annoy her.
"What is it, dear?"
he repeated.
"What's the matter?"
"Oh, it is so strange!"
she murmured.
"Look, Patrice, look at those flowers."
They were on the third terrace, commanding a view of the fourth; and this, the lowest of the terraces, was adorned not with borders of wall-flowers but with beds in which were mingled all manner of spring flowers; tulips, silvery alyssums, hyacinths, with a great round plot of pansies in the middle.
"Look over there," she said, pointing to this plot with her outstretched arm.
"Do you see?
.
. .
Letters.
.
. ."
Patrice looked and gradually perceived that the clumps of pansies were so arranged as to form on the ground some letters that stood out among the other flowers.
It did not appear at the first glance.
It took a certain time to see; but, once seen, the letters grouped themselves of their own accord, forming three words set down in a single line:

_Patrice and Coralie_

"Ah," he said, in a low voice, "I understand what you mean!"
It gave them a thrill of inexpressible excitement to read their two names, which a friendly hand had, so to speak, sown; their two names united in pansy-flowers.
It was inexpressibly exciting too that he and she should always find themselves thus linked together, linked together by events, linked together by their portraits, linked together by an unseen force of will, linked together now by the struggling effort of little flowers that spring up, waken into life and blossom in predetermined order.
Coralie, sitting up, said:

"It's Siméon who attends to the garden."
"Yes," he said, wavering slightly.
"But surely that does not affect my opinion.
Our unknown friend is dead, but Siméon may have known him.
Siméon perhaps was acting with him in certain matters and must know a good deal.
Oh, if he could only put us on the right road!"
An hour later, as the sun was sinking on the horizon, they climbed the terraces.
On reaching the top they saw M. Masseron beckoning to them.
"I have something curious to show you," he said, "something I have found which will interest both you, madame, and you, captain, particularly."
He led them to the very end of the terrace, outside the occupied part of the house next to the library.
Two detectives were standing mattock in hand.
In the course of their searching, M. Masseron explained, they had begun by removing the ivy from the low wall adorned with terra-cotta vases.
Thereupon M. Masseron's attention was attracted by the fact that this wall was covered, for a length of some yards, by a layer of plaster which appeared to be more recent in date than the stone.
"What did it mean?"
said M. Masseron.
"I had to presuppose some motive.
I therefore had this layer of plaster demolished; and underneath it I found a second layer, not so thick as the first and mingled with the rough stone.
Come closer .
. .
or, rather, no, stand back a little way: you can see better like that."
The second layer really served only to keep in place some small white pebbles, which constituted a sort of mosaic set in black pebbles and formed a series of large, written letters, spelling three words.
And these three words once again were:

_Patrice and Coralie_

"What do you say to that?"
asked M. Masseron.
"Observe that the inscription goes several years back, at least ten years, when we consider the condition of the ivy clinging to this part of the wall."
"At least ten years," Patrice repeated, when he was once more alone with Coralie.
"Ten years ago was when you were not married, when you were still at Salonica and when nobody used to come to this garden .
. .
nobody except Siméon and such people as he chose to admit.
And among these," he concluded, "was our unknown friend who is now dead.
And Siméon knows the truth, Coralie."
They saw old Siméon, late that afternoon, as they had seen him constantly since the tragedy, wandering in the garden or along the passages of the house, restless and distraught, with his comforter always wound round his head and his spectacles on his nose, stammering words which no one could understand.
At night, his neighbor, one of the maimed soldiers, would often hear him humming to himself.
Patrice twice tried to make him speak.
He shook his head and did not answer, or else laughed like an idiot.
The problem was becoming complicated; and nothing pointed to a possible solution.
Who was it that, since their childhood, had promised them to each other as a pair betrothed long beforehand by an inflexible ordinance?
Who was it that arranged the pansy-bed last autumn, when they did not know each other?
And who was it that had written their two names, ten years ago, in white pebbles, within the thickness of a wall?
These were haunting questions for two young people in whom love had awakened quite spontaneously and who suddenly saw stretching behind them a long past common to them both.
Each step that they took in the garden seemed to them a pilgrimage amid forgotten memories; and, at every turn in a path, they were prepared to discover some new proof of the bond that linked them together unknown to themselves.
As a matter of fact, during those few days, they saw their initials interlaced twice on the trunk of a tree, once on the back of a bench.
And twice again their names appeared inscribed on old walls and concealed behind a layer of plaster overhung with ivy.
On these two occasions their names were accompanied by two separate dates:

_Patrice and Coralie, 1904_      _Patrice and Coralie, 1907_

"Eleven years ago and eight years ago," said the officer.
"And always our two names: Patrice and Coralie."
Their hands met and clasped each other.
The great mystery of their past brought them as closely together as did the great love which filled them and of which they refrained from speaking.
In spite of themselves, however, they sought out solitude; and it was in this way that, a fortnight after the murder of Essarès Bey, as they passed the little door opening on the lane, they decided to go out by it and to stroll down to the river bank.
No one saw them, for both the approach to the door and the path leading to it were hidden by a screen of tall bushes; and M. Masseron and his men were exploring the old green-houses, which stood at the other side of the garden, and the old furnace and chimney which had been used for signaling.
But, when he was outside, Patrice stopped.
Almost in front of him, in the opposite wall, was an exactly similar door.
He called Coralie's attention to it, but she said:

"There is nothing astonishing about that.
This wall is the boundary of another garden which at one time belonged to the one we have just left."
"But who lives there?"
"Nobody.
The little house which overlooks it and which comes before mine, in the Rue Raynouard, is always shut up."
"Same door, same key, perhaps," Patrice murmured, half to himself.
He inserted in the lock the rusty key, which had reached him by messenger.
The lock responded.
"Well," he said, "the series of miracles is continuing.
Will this one be in our favor?"
The vegetation had been allowed to run riot in the narrow strip of ground that faced them.
However, in the middle of the exuberant grass, a well-trodden path, which looked as if it were often used, started from the door in the wall and rose obliquely to the single terrace, on which stood a dilapidated lodge with closed shutters.
It was built on one floor, but was surmounted by a small lantern-shaped belvedere.
It had its own entrance in the Rue Raynouard, from which it was separated by a yard and a very high wall.
This entrance seemed to be barricaded with boards and posts nailed together.
They walked round the house and were surprised by the sight that awaited them on the right-hand side.
The foliage had been trained into rectangular cloisters, carefully kept, with regular arcades cut in yew- and box-hedges.
A miniature garden was laid out in this space, the very home of silence and tranquillity.
Here also were wall-flowers and pansies and hyacinths.
And four paths, coming from four corners of the cloisters, met round a central space, where stood the five columns of a small, open temple, rudely constructed of pebbles and unmortared building-stones.
Under the dome of this little temple was a tombstone and, in front of it, an old wooden praying-chair, from the bars of which hung, on the left, an ivory crucifix and, on the right, a rosary composed of amethyst beads in a gold filigree setting.
"Coralie, Coralie," whispered Patrice, in a voice trembling with emotion, "who can be buried here?"
They went nearer.
There were bead wreaths laid in rows on the tombstone.
They counted nineteen, each bearing the date of one of the last nineteen years.
Pushing them aside, they read the following inscription in gilt letters worn and soiled by the rain:

HERE LIE         PATRICE AND CORALIE,      BOTH OF WHOM WERE MURDERED      ON THE 14th OF APRIL, 1895.
REVENGE TO ME: I WILL REPAY.
CHAPTER X

THE RED CORD

Coralie, feeling her legs give way beneath her, had flung herself on the prie-dieu and there knelt praying fervently and wildly.
She could not tell on whose behalf, for the repose of what unknown soul her prayers were offered; but her whole being was afire with fever and exaltation and the very action of praying seemed able to assuage her.
"What was your mother's name, Coralie?"
Patrice whispered.
"Louise," she replied.
"And my father's name was Armand.
It cannot be either of them, therefore; and yet .
. ."
Patrice also was displaying the greatest agitation.
Stooping down, he examined the nineteen wreaths, renewed his inspection of the tombstone and said:

"All the same, Coralie, the coincidence is really too extraordinary.
My father died in 1895."
"And my mother died in that year too," she said, "though I do not know the exact date."
"We shall find out, Coralie," he declared.
"These things can all be verified.
But meanwhile one truth becomes clear.
The man who used to interlace the names of Patrice and Coralie was not thinking only of us and was not considering only the future.
Perhaps he thought even more of the past, of that Coralie and Patrice whom he knew to have suffered a violent death and whom he had undertaken to avenge.
Come away, Coralie.
No one must suspect that we have been here."
They went down the path and through the two doors on the lane.
They were not seen coming in.
Patrice at once brought Coralie indoors, urged Ya-Bon and his comrades to increase their vigilance and left the house.
He came back in the evening only to go out again early the next day; and it was not until the day after, at three o'clock in the afternoon, that he asked to be shown up to Coralie.
"Have you found out?"
she asked him at once.
"I have found out a great many things which do not dispel the darkness of the present.
I am almost tempted to say that they increase it.
They do, however, throw a very vivid light on the past."
"Do they explain what we saw two days ago?"
she asked, anxiously.
"Listen to me, Coralie."
He sat down opposite her and said:

"I shall not tell you all the steps that I have taken.
I will merely sum up the result of those which led to some result.
I went, first of all, to the Mayor of Passy's office and from there to the Servian Legation."
"Then you persist in assuming that it was my mother?"
"Yes.
I took a copy of her death-certificate, Coralie.
Your mother died on the fourteenth of April, 1895."
"Oh!"
she said.
"That is the date on the tomb!"
"The very date."
"But the name?
Coralie?
My father used to call her Louise."
"Your mother's name was Louise Coralie Countess Odolavitch."
"Oh, my mother!"
she murmured.
"My poor darling mother!
Then it was she who was murdered.
It was for her that I was praying over the way?"
"For her, Coralie, and for my father.
I discovered his full name at the mayor's office in the Rue Drouot.
My father was Armand Patrice Belval.
He died on the fourteenth of April, 1895."
Patrice was right in saying that a singular light had been thrown upon the past.
He had now positively established that the inscription on the tombstone related to his father and Coralie's mother, both of whom were murdered on the same day.
But by whom and for what reason, in consequence of what tragedies?
This was what Coralie asked him to tell her.
"I cannot answer your questions yet," he replied.
"But I addressed another to myself, one more easily solved; and that I did solve.
This also makes us certain of an essential point.
I wanted to know to whom the lodge belonged.
The outside, in the Rue Raynouard, affords no clue.
You have seen the wall and the door of the yard: they show nothing in particular.
But the number of the property was sufficient for my purpose.
I went to the local receiver and learnt that the taxes were paid by a notary in the Avenue de l'Opéra.
I called on this notary, who told me .
. ."
He stopped for a moment and then said:

"The lodge was bought twenty-one years ago by my father.
Two years later my father died; and the lodge, which of course formed part of his estate, was put up for sale by the present notary's predecessor and bought by one Siméon Diodokis, a Greek subject."
"It's he!"
cried Coralie.
"Siméon's name is Diodokis."
"Well, Siméon Diodokis," Patrice continued, "was a friend of my father's, because my father appointed him the sole executor of his will and because it was Siméon Diodokis who, through the notary in question and a London solicitor, paid my school-fees and, when I attained my majority, made over to me the sum of two hundred thousand francs, the balance of my inheritance."
They maintained a long silence.
Many things were becoming manifest, but indistinctly, as yet, and shaded, like things seen in the evening mist.
And one thing stood in sharper outline than the rest, for Patrice murmured:

"Your mother and my father loved each other, Coralie."
The thought united them more closely and affected them profoundly.
Their love was the counterpart of another love, bruised by trials, like theirs, but still more tragic and ending in bloodshed and death.
"Your mother and my father loved each other," he repeated.
"I should say they must have belonged to that class of rather enthusiastic lovers whose passion indulges in charming little childish ways, for they had a trick of calling each other, when alone, by names which nobody else used to them; and they selected their second Christian names, which were also yours and mine.
One day your mother dropped her amethyst rosary.
The largest of the beads broke in two pieces.
My father had one of the pieces mounted as a trinket which he hung on his watch-chain.
Both were widowed.
You were two years old and I was eight.
In order to devote himself altogether to the woman he loved, my father sent me to England and bought the lodge in which your mother, who lived in the big house next door, used to go and see him, crossing the lane and using the same key for both doors.
It was no doubt in this lodge, or in the garden round it, that they were murdered.
We shall find that out, because there must be visible proofs of the murder, proofs which Siméon Diodokis discovered, since he was not afraid to say so in the inscription on the tombstone."
"And who was the murderer?"
Coralie asked, under her breath.
"You suspect it, Coralie, as I do.
The hated name comes to your mind, even though we have no grounds for speaking with certainty."
"Essarès!"
she cried, in anguish.
"Most probably."
She hid her face in her hands:

"No, no, it is impossible.
It is impossible that I should have been the wife of the man who killed my mother."
"You bore his name, but you were never his wife.
You told him so the evening before his death, in my presence.
Let us say nothing that we are unable to say positively; but all the same let us remember that he was your evil genius.
Remember also that Siméon, my father's friend and executor, the man who bought the lovers' lodge, the man who swore upon their tomb to avenge them: remember that Siméon, a few months after your mother's death, persuaded Essarès to engage him as caretaker of the estate, became his secretary and gradually made his way into Essarès' life.
His only object must have been to carry out a plan of revenge."
"There has been no revenge."
"What do we know about it?
Do we know how Essarès met his death?
Certainly it was not Siméon who killed him, as Siméon was at the hospital.
But he may have caused him to be killed.
And revenge has a thousand ways of manifesting itself.
Lastly, Siméon was most likely obeying instructions that came from my father.
There is little doubt that he wanted first to achieve an aim which my father and your mother had at heart: the union of our destinies, Coralie.
And it was this aim that ruled his life.
It was he evidently who placed among the knick-knacks which I collected as a child this amethyst of which the other half formed a bead in your rosary.
It was he who collected our photographs.
He lastly was our unknown friend and protector, the one who sent me the key, accompanied by a letter which I never received, unfortunately."
"Then, Patrice, you no longer believe that he is dead, this unknown friend, or that you heard his dying cries?"
"I cannot say.
Siméon was not necessarily acting alone.
He may have had a confidant, an assistant in the work which he undertook.
Perhaps it was this other man who died at nineteen minutes past seven.
I cannot say.
Everything that happened on that ill-fated morning remains involved in the deepest mystery.
The only conviction that we are able to hold is that for twenty years Siméon Diodokis has worked unobtrusively and patiently on our behalf, doing his utmost to defeat the murderer, and that Siméon Diodokis is alive.
Alive, but mad!"
Patrice added.
"So that we can neither thank him nor question him about the grim story which he knows or about the dangers that threaten you."
*       *       *       *       *

Patrice resolved once more to make the attempt, though he felt sure of a fresh disappointment.
Siméon had a bedroom, next to that occupied by two of the wounded soldiers, in the wing which formerly contained the servants' quarters.
Here Patrice found him.
He was sitting half-asleep in a chair turned towards the garden.
His pipe was in his mouth; he had allowed it to go out.
The room was small, sparsely furnished, but clean and light.
Hidden from view, the best part of the old man's life was spent here.
M. Masseron had often visited the room, in Siméon's absence, and so had Patrice, each from his own point of view.
The only discovery worthy of note consisted of a crude diagram in pencil, on the white wall-paper behind a chest of drawers: three lines intersecting to form a large equilateral triangle.
In the middle of this geometrical figure were three words clumsily inscribed in adhesive gold-leaf:

_The Golden Triangle_

There was nothing more, not another clue of any kind, to further M. Masseron's search.
Patrice walked straight up to the old man and tapped him on the shoulder:

"Siméon!"
he said.
The other lifted his yellow spectacles to him, and Patrice felt a sudden wish to snatch away this glass obstacle which concealed the old fellow's eyes and prevented him from looking into his soul and his distant memories.
Siméon began to laugh foolishly.
"So this," thought Patrice, "is my friend and my father's friend.
He loved my father, respected his wishes, was faithful to his memory, raised a tomb to him, prayed on it and swore to avenge him.
And now his mind has gone."
Patrice felt that speech was useless.
But, though the sound of his voice roused no echo in that wandering brain, it was possible that the eyes were susceptible to a reminder.
He wrote on a clean sheet of paper the words that Siméon had gazed upon so often:

_Patrice and Coralie_         _14 April, 1895_

The old man looked, shook his head and repeated his melancholy, foolish chuckle.
The officer added a new line:

_Armand Belval_

The old man displayed the same torpor.
Patrice continued the test.
He wrote down the names of Essarès Bey and Colonel Fakhi.
He drew a triangle.
The old man failed to understand and went on chuckling.
But suddenly his laughter lost some of its childishness.
Patrice had written the name of Bournef, the accomplice, and this time the old secretary appeared to be stirred by a recollection.
He tried to get up, fell back in his chair, then rose to his feet again and took his hat from a peg on the wall.
He left his room and, followed by Patrice, marched out of the house and turned to the left, in the direction of Auteuil.
He moved like a man in a trance who is hypnotized into walking without knowing where he is going.
He led the way along the Rue de Boulainvilliers, crossed the Seine and turned down the Quai de Grenelle with an unhesitating step.
Then, when he reached the boulevard, he stopped, putting out his arm, made a sign to Patrice to do likewise.
A kiosk hid them from view.
He put his head round it.
Patrice followed his example.
Opposite, at the corner of the boulevard and a side-street, was a café, with a portion of the pavement in front of it marked out by dwarf shrubs in tubs.
Behind these tubs four men sat drinking.
Three of them had their backs turned to Patrice.
He saw the only one that faced him, and he at once recognized Bournef.
By this time Siméon was some distance away, like a man whose part is played and who leaves it to others to complete the work.
Patrice looked round, caught sight of a post-office and went in briskly.
He knew that M. Masseron was at the Rue Raynouard.
He telephoned and told him where Bournef was.
M. Masseron replied that he would come at once.
Since the murder of Essarès Bey, M. Masseron's enquiry had made no progress in so far as Colonel Fakhi's four accomplices were concerned.
True, they discovered the man Grégoire's sanctuary and the bedrooms with the wall-cupboards; but the whole place was empty.
The accomplices had disappeared.
"Old Siméon," said Patrice to himself, "was acquainted with their habits.
He must have known that they were accustomed to meet at this café on a certain day of the week, at a fixed hour, and he suddenly remembered it all at the sight of Bournef's name."
A few minutes later M. Masseron alighted from his car with his men.
The business did not take long.
The open front of the café was surrounded.
The accomplices offered no resistance.
M. Masseron sent three of them under a strong guard to the Dépôt and hustled Bournef into a private room.
"Come along," he said to Patrice.
"We'll question him."
"Mme.
Essarès is alone at the house," Patrice objected.
"Alone?
No.
There are all your soldier-men."
"Yes, but I would rather go back, if you don't mind.
It's the first time that I've left her and I'm justified in feeling anxious."
"It's only a matter of a few minutes," M. Masseron insisted.
"One should always take advantage of the fluster caused by the arrest."
Patrice followed him, but they soon saw that Bournef was not one of those men who are easily put out.
He simply shrugged his shoulders at their threats:

"It is no use, sir," he said, "to try and frighten me.
I risk nothing.
Shot, do you say?
Nonsense!
You don't shoot people in France for the least thing; and we are all four subjects of a neutral country.
Tried?
Sentenced?
Imprisoned?
Never!
You forget that you have kept everything dark so far; and, when you hushed up the murder of Mustapha, of Fakhi and of Essarès, it was not done with the object of reviving the case for no valid reason.
No, sir, I am quite easy.
The internment-camp is the worst that can await me."
"Then you refuse to answer?"
said M. Masseron.
"Not a bit of it!
I accept internment.
But there are twenty different ways of treating a man in these camps, and I should like to earn your favor and, in so doing, make sure of reasonable comfort till the end of the war.
But first of all, what do you know?"
"Pretty well everything."
"That's a pity: it decreases my value.
Do you know about Essarès' last night?"
"Yes, with the bargain of the four millions.
What's become of the money?"
Bournef made a furious gesture:

"Taken from us!
Stolen!
It was a trap!"
"Who took it?"
"One Grégoire."
"Who was he?"
"His familiar, as we have since learnt.
We discovered that this Grégoire was no other than a fellow who used to serve as his chauffeur on occasion."
"And who therefore helped him to convey the bags of gold from the bank to his house."
"Yes.
And we also think, we know .
. .
Look here, you may as well call it a certainty.
Grégoire .
. .
is a woman."
"A woman!"
"Exactly.
His mistress.
We have several proofs of it.
But she's a trustworthy, capable woman, strong as a man and afraid of nothing."
"Do you know her address?"
"No."
"As to the gold: have you no clue to its whereabouts, no suspicion?"
"No.
The gold is in the garden or in the house in the Rue Raynouard.
We saw it being taken in every day for a week.
It has not been taken out since.
We kept watch every night.
The bags are there."
"No clue either to Essarès' murderer?"
"No, none."
"Are you quite sure?"
"Why should I tell a lie?"
"Suppose it was yourself?
Or one of your friends?"
"We thought that you would suspect us.
Fortunately, we happen to have an alibi."
"Easy to prove?"
"Impossible to upset."
"We'll look into it.
So you have nothing more to reveal?"
"No.
But I have an idea .
. .
or rather a question which you will answer or not, as you please.
Who betrayed us?
Your reply may throw some useful light, for one person only knew of our weekly meetings here from four to five o'clock, one person only, Essarès Bey; and he himself often came here to confer with us.
Essarès is dead.
Then who gave us away?"
"Old Siméon."
Bournef started with astonishment:

"What!
Siméon?
Siméon Diodokis?"
"Yes.
Siméon Diodokis, Essarès Bey's secretary."
"He?
Oh, I'll make him pay for this, the blackguard!
But no, it's impossible."
"What makes you say that it's impossible?'"
"Why, because .
. ."
He stopped and thought for some time, no doubt to convince himself that there was no harm in speaking.
Then he finished his sentence:

"Because old Siméon was on our side."
"What's that you say?"
exclaimed Patrice, whose turn it was to be surprised.
"I say and I swear that Siméon Diodokis was on our side.
He was our man.
It was he who kept us informed of Essarès Bey's shady tricks.
It was he who rang us up at nine o'clock in the evening to tell us that Essarès had lit the furnace of the old hothouses and that the signal of the sparks was going to work.
It was he who opened the door to us, pretending to resist, of course, and allowed us to tie him up in the porter's lodge.
It was he, lastly, who paid and dismissed the men-servants."
"But why?
Why this treachery?
For the sake of money?"
"No, from hatred.
He bore Essarès Bey a hatred that often gave us the shudders."
"What prompted it?"
"I don't know.
Siméon keeps his own counsel.
But it dated a long way back."
"Did he know where the gold was hidden?"
asked M. Masseron.
"No.
And it was not for want of hunting to find out.
He never knew how the bags got out the cellar, which was only a temporary hiding-place."
"And yet they used to leave the grounds.
If so, how are we to know that the same thing didn't happen this time?"
"This time we were keeping watch the whole way round outside, a thing which Siméon could not do by himself."
Patrice now put the question:

"Can you tell us nothing more about him?"
"No, I can't.
Wait, though; there was one rather curious thing.
On the afternoon of the great day, I received a letter in which Siméon gave me certain particulars.
In the same envelope was another letter, which had evidently got there by some incredible mistake, for it appeared to be highly important."
"What did it say?"
asked Patrice, anxiously.
"It was all about a key."
"Don't you remember the details?"
"Here is the letter.
I kept it in order to give it back to him and warn him what he had done.
Here, it's certainly his writing.
.
. ."
Patrice took the sheet of notepaper; and the first thing that he saw was his own name.
The letter was addressed to him, as he anticipated:

"_Patrice_,

"You will this evening receive a key.
The key opens       two doors midway down a lane leading to the river:       one, on the right, is that of the garden of the woman       you love; the other, on the left, that of a garden       where I want you to meet me at nine o'clock in the       morning on the 14th of April.
She will be there also.
You shall learn who I am and the object which I intend       to attain.
You shall both hear things about the past       that will bring you still closer together.
"From now until the 14th the struggle which begins       to-night will be a terrible one.
If anything happens       to me, it is certain that the woman you love will run       the greatest dangers.
Watch over her, Patrice; do not       leave her for an instant unprotected.
But I do not       intend to let anything happen to me; and you shall       both know the happiness which I have been preparing       for you so long.
"My best love to you."
"It's not signed," said Bournef, "but, I repeat, it's in Siméon's handwriting.
As for the lady, she is obviously Mme.
Essarès."
"But what danger can she be running?"
exclaimed Patrice, uneasily.
"Essarès is dead, so there is nothing to fear."
"I wouldn't say that.
He would take some killing."
"Whom can he have instructed to avenge him?
Who would continue his work?"
"I can't say, but I should take no risks."
Patrice waited to hear no more.
He thrust the letter into M. Masseron's hand and made his escape.
"Rue Raynouard, fast as you can," he said, springing into a taxi.
He was eager to reach his destination.
The dangers of which old Siméon spoke seemed suddenly to hang over Coralie's head.
Already the enemy, taking advantage of Patrice's absence, might be attacking his beloved.
And who could defend her?
"If anything happens to me," Siméon had said.
And the supposition was partly realized, since he had lost his wits.
"Come, come," muttered Patrice, "this is sheer idiocy.
.
. .
I am fancying things.
.
. .
There is no reason .
. ."
But his mental anguish increased every minute.
He reminded himself that old Siméon was still in full possession of his faculties at the time when he wrote that letter and gave the advice which it contained.
He reminded himself that old Siméon had purposely informed him that the key opened the door of Coralie's garden, so that he, Patrice, might keep an effective watch by coming to her in case of need.
He saw Siméon some way ahead of him.
It was growing late, and the old fellow was going home.
Patrice passed him just outside the porter's lodge and heard him humming to himself.
"Any news?"
Patrice asked the soldier on duty.
"No, sir."
"Where's Little Mother Coralie?"
"She had a walk in the garden and went upstairs half an hour ago."
"Ya-Bon?"
"Ya-Bon went up with Little Mother Coralie.
He should be at her door."
Patrice climbed the stairs, feeling a good deal calmer.
But, when he came to the first floor, he was astonished to find that the electric light was not on.
He turned on the switch.
Then he saw, at the end of the passage, Ya-Bon on his knees outside Coralie's room, with his head leaning against the wall.
The door was open.
"What are you doing there?"
he shouted, running up.
Ya-Bon made no reply.
Patrice saw that there was blood on the shoulder of his jacket.
At that moment the Senegalese sank to the floor.
"Damn it!
He's wounded!
Dead perhaps."
He leapt over the body and rushed into the room, switching on the light at once.
Coralie was lying at full length on a sofa.
Round her neck was the terrible little red-silk cord.
And yet Patrice did not experience that awful, numbing despair which we feel in the presence of irretrievable misfortunes.
It seemed to him that Coralie's face had not the pallor of death.
He found that she was in fact breathing:

"She's not dead.
She's not dead," said Patrice to himself.
"And she's not going to die, I'm sure of it .
. .
nor Ya-Bon either.
.
. .
They've failed this time."
He loosened the cords.
In a few seconds Coralie heaved a deep breath and recovered consciousness.
A smile lit up her eyes at the sight of him.
But, suddenly remembering, she threw her arms, still so weak, around him:

"Oh, Patrice," she said, in a trembling voice, "I'm frightened .
. .
frightened for you!"
"What are you frightened of, Coralie?
Who is the scoundrel?"
"I didn't see him.
.
. .
He put out the light, caught me by the throat and whispered, 'You first.
.
. .
To-night it will be your lover's turn!'
.
. .
Oh, Patrice, I'm frightened for you!
.
. ."
CHAPTER XI

ON THE BRINK

Patrice at once made up his mind what to do.
He lifted Coralie to her bed and asked her not to move or call out.
Then he made sure that Ya-Bon was not seriously wounded.
Lastly, he rang violently, sounding all the bells that communicated with the posts which he had placed in different parts of the house.
The men came hurrying up.
"You're a pack of nincompoops," he said.
"Some one's been here.
Little Mother Coralie and Ya-Bon have had a narrow escape from being killed."
They began to protest loudly.
"Silence!"
he commanded.
"You deserve a good hiding, every one of you.
I'll forgive you on one condition, which is that, all this evening and all to-night, you speak of Little Mother Coralie as though she were dead."
"But whom are we to speak to, sir?"
one of them objected.
"There's nobody here."
"Yes, there is, you silly fool, since Little Mother Coralie and Ya-Bon have been attacked.
Unless it was yourselves who did it!
.
. .
It wasn't?
Very well then.
.
. .
And let me have no more nonsense.
It's not a question of speaking to others, but of talking among yourselves .
. .
and of thinking, even, without speaking.
There are people listening to you, spying on you, people who hear what you say and who guess what you don't say.
So, until to-morrow, Little Mother Coralie will not leave her room.
You shall keep watch over her by turns.
Those who are not watching will go to bed immediately after dinner.
No moving about the house, do you understand?
Absolute silence and quiet."
"And old Siméon, sir?"
"Lock him up in his room.
He's dangerous because he's mad.
They may have taken advantage of his madness to make him open the door to them.
Lock him up!"
Patrice's plan was a simple one.
As the enemy, believing Coralie to be on the point of death, had revealed to her his intention, which was to kill Patrice as well, it was necessary that he should think himself free to act, with nobody to suspect his schemes or to be on his guard against him.
He would enter upon the struggle and would then be caught in a trap.
Pending this struggle, for which he longed with all his might, Patrice saw to Ya-Bon's wound, which proved to be only slight, and questioned him and Coralie.
Their answers tallied at all points.
Coralie, feeling a little tired, was lying down reading.
Ya-Bon remained in the passage, outside the open door, squatting on the floor, Arab-fashion.
Neither of them heard anything suspicious.
And suddenly Ya-Bon saw a shadow between himself and the light in the passage.
This light, which came from an electric lamp, was put out at just about the same time as the light in the bed-room.
Ya-Bon, already half-erect, felt a violent blow in the back of the neck and lost consciousness.
Coralie tried to escape by the door of her boudoir, was unable to open it, began to cry out and was at once seized and thrown down.
All this had happened within the space of a few seconds.
The only hint that Patrice succeeded in obtaining was that the man came not from the staircase but from the servants' wing.
This had a smaller staircase of its own, communicating with the kitchen through a pantry by which the tradesmen entered from the Rue Raynouard.
The door leading to the street was locked.
But some one might easily possess a key.
After dinner Patrice went in to see Coralie for a moment and then, at nine o'clock, retired to his bedroom, which was situated a little lower down, on the same side.
It had been used, in Essarès Bey's lifetime, as a smoking-room.
As the attack from which he expected such good results was not likely to take place before the middle of the night, Patrice sat down at a roll-top desk standing against the wall and took out the diary in which he had begun his detailed record of recent events.
He wrote on for half an hour or forty minutes and was about to close the book when he seemed to hear a vague rustle, which he would certainly not have noticed if his nerves had not been stretched to their utmost state of tension.
And he remembered the day when he and Coralie had once before been shot at.
This time, however, the window was not open nor even ajar.
He therefore went on writing without turning his head or doing anything to suggest that his attention had been aroused; and he set down, almost unconsciously, the actual phases of his anxiety:

"He is here.
He is watching me.
I wonder what he means       to do.
I doubt if he will smash a pane of glass and       fire a bullet at me.
He has tried that method before       and found it uncertain and a failure.
No, his plan is       thought out, I expect, in a different and more       intelligent fashion.
He is more likely to wait for me       to go to bed, when he can watch me sleeping and effect       his entrance by some means which I can't guess.
"Meanwhile, it's extraordinarily exhilarating to know       that his eyes are upon me.
He hates me; and his hatred       is coming nearer and nearer to mine, like one sword       feeling its way towards another before clashing.
He is       watching me as a wild animal, lurking in the dark,       watches its prey and selects the spot on which to       fasten its fangs.
But no, I am certain that it's he       who is the prey, doomed beforehand to defeat and       destruction.
He is preparing his knife or his red-silk       cord.
And it's these two hands of mine that will       finish the battle.
They are strong and powerful and       are already enjoying their victory.
They will be       victorious."
Patrice shut down the desk, lit a cigarette and smoked it quietly, as his habit was before going to bed.
Then he undressed, folded his clothes carefully over the back of a chair, wound up his watch, got into bed and switched off the light.
"At last," he said to himself, "I shall know the truth.
I shall know who this man is.
Some friend of Essarès', continuing his work?
But why this hatred of Coralie?
Is he in love with her, as he is trying to finish me off too?
I shall know .
. .
I shall soon know.
.
. ."
An hour passed, however, and another hour, during which nothing happened on the side of the window.
A single creaking came from somewhere beside the desk.
But this no doubt was one of those sounds of creaking furniture which we often hear in the silence of the night.
Patrice began to lose the buoyant hope that had sustained him so far.
He perceived that his elaborate sham regarding Coralie's death was a poor thing after all and that a man of his enemy's stamp might well refuse to be taken in by it.
Feeling rather put out, he was on the point of going to sleep, when he heard the same creaking sound at the same spot.
The need to do something made him jump out of bed.
He turned on the light.
Everything seemed to be as he had left it.
There was no trace of a strange presence.
"Well," said Patrice, "one thing's certain: I'm no good.
The enemy must have smelt a rat and guessed the trap I laid for him.
Let's go to sleep.
There will be nothing happening to-night."
There was in fact no alarm.
Next morning, on examining the window, he observed that a stone ledge ran above the ground-floor all along the garden front of the house, wide enough for a man to walk upon by holding on to the balconies and rain-pipes.
He inspected all the rooms to which the ledge gave access.
None of them was old Siméon's room.
"He hasn't stirred out, I suppose?"
he asked the two soldiers posted on guard.
"Don't think so, sir.
In any case, we haven't unlocked the door."
Patrice went in and, paying no attention to the old fellow, who was still sucking at his cold pipe, he searched the room, having it at the back of his mind that the enemy might take refuge there.
He found nobody.
But what he did discover, in a press in the wall, was a number of things which he had not seen on the occasion of his investigations in M. Masseron's company.
These consisted of a rope-ladder, a coil of lead pipes, apparently gas-pipes, and a small soldering-lamp.
"This all seems devilish odd," he said to himself.
"How did the things get in here?
Did Siméon collect them without any definite object, mechanically?
Or am I to assume that Siméon is merely an instrument of the enemy's?
He used to know the enemy before he lost his reason; and he may be under his influence at present."
Siméon was sitting at the window, with his back to the room.
Patrice went up to him and gave a start.
In his hands the old man held a funeral-wreath made of black and white beads.
It bore a date, "14 April, 1915," and made the twentieth, the one which Siméon was preparing to lay on the grave of his dead friends.
"He will lay it there," said Patrice, aloud.
"His instinct as an avenging friend, which has guided his steps through life, continues in spite of his insanity.
He will lay it on the grave.
That's so, Siméon, isn't it: you will take it there to-morrow?
For to-morrow is the fourteenth of April, the sacred anniversary.
.
. ."
He leant over the incomprehensible being who held the key to all the plots and counterplots, to all the treachery and benevolence that constituted the inextricable drama.
Siméon thought that Patrice wanted to take the wreath from him and pressed it to his chest with a startled gesture.
"Don't be afraid," said Patrice.
"You can keep it.
To-morrow, Siméon, to-morrow, Coralie and I will be faithful to the appointment which you gave us.
And to-morrow perhaps the memory of the horrible past will unseal your brain."
The day seemed long to Patrice, who was eager for something that would provide a glimmer in the surrounding darkness.
And now this glimmer seemed about to be kindled by the arrival of this twentieth anniversary of the fourteenth of April.
At a late hour in the afternoon M. Masseron called at the Rue Raynouard.
"Look what I've just received," he said to Patrice.
"It's rather curious: an anonymous letter in a disguised hand.
Listen:

"'_Sir_, be warned.
They're going away.
Take care.
To-morrow evening the 1800 bags will be on their way  out of the country.
A FRI