Chapter I, a missing period was added after "Valsez là".
In Chapter II, "would have withrawn" was changed to "would have withdrawn", and a missing quotation mark was added before "you ought really to be a tamer of animals!".
In Chapter III, a missing period was added after "after her wedding".
In Chapter IV, a quotation mark was added before "They are all in a very good humour to-day".
In Chapter VI, "amongst us at the, Table of Public Opinion" was changed to "amongst us at the Table of Public Opinion".
In Chapter VIII a missing quotation mark was added after "skiz and pagát...."

In Chapter X a missing period was added after "Newspapers he never reads".
In Chapter XIII, "beleagured fortress" was changed to "beleaguered fortress", "hide yourself in the village of Isza" was changed to "hide yourself in the village of Izsa", a missing period was added after "glass full of szilvorium", and an extraneous quotation mark was deleted after "the hovel at Hetény".
In Chapter XIV, a quotation mark was added before "Forget what we have been speaking about!"
In Chapter XV, "Wencesclaus Kvatopil was decidedly an improvement" was changed to "Wenceslaus Kvatopil was decidedly an improvement".
In Chapter XVI, "Kakas Mártin," was changed to "Kakas Mártin."
The ellipses in Chapter XVII both contained an extra dot (a period plus four dots at the end of a sentence, and four dots following an incomplete sentence).
The extra dots have been removed.
Also, a missing period has been added after "her various temperaments".
In Chapter XVIII, a missing quotation mark was added after "mutually discovered in Kvatopil's character....".
In Chapter XIX, "Özvegy Kapitáuyné" was changed to "Özvegy Kapitányné", a period was changed to a colon after "said to the President", a missing quotation mark was added after "left to practise alone", and "piroutted off" was changed to "pirouetted off".
In Chapter XX, "turn the jok against you" was changed to "turn the joke against you", "the Józsefvarose dispensary" was changed to "the Józsefváros dispensary", "the real Ca holic faith" was changed to "the real Catholic faith", and a misplaced quotation mark was move from after "taken in hand to get on very well" to after "sit in judgment on his faults".
Numerous Hungarian words have been spelled inconsistently, sometimes with an accent and sometimes without, and some words have been inconsistently hyphenated.
Each occurrence has been left as it appeared in the original text, except as follows: "Fövarosi" has been changed to "Fövárosi", "Heteny" to "Hetény", "Honvéd" to "Honved", "Jokai" to "Jókai", "Rakóczy" to "Rákóczy", "Sagi" to "Sági", "Segesvar" to "Segesvár", "Valy" to "Vály", "Vasvary" to "Vasváry", and "Verchovszky" to "Vérchovszky".
Also, the section titled "A Few Comments of the English Press" has been moved from the front of the book to the back.
