CHAPTER I.

M. MADELEINE LOOKS AT HIS HAIR.
Day was beginning to dawn.
Fantine had passed a sleepless and feverish night, though full of bright visions, and towards morning fell asleep.
Sister Simplice, who was watching, took advantage of this slumber to go and prepare a fresh dose of bark.
The worthy sister had been for some time in the surgery, stooping over her drugs and bottles, and looking carefully at them on account of the mist which dawn spreads over objects.
All at once she turned her head and gave a slight shriek.
M. Madeleine had entered silently, and was standing before her.
"Is it you, sir?"
she exclaimed.
He answered in a low voice,--

"How is the poor creature?"
"Not so bad just at present, but she has frightened us terribly."
She explained to him what had occurred, how Fantine had been very ill the previous day, but was now better, because she believed that he had gone to Montfermeil to fetch her child.
The sister did not dare question him, but she could see from his looks that he had not been there.
"All that is well," he said.
"You did right in not undeceiving her."
"Yes," the sister continued; "but now that she is going to see you, sir, and does not see her child, what are we to tell her?"
He remained thoughtful for a moment.
"God will inspire us," he said.
"Still, it is impossible to tell a falsehood," the sister murmured in a low voice.
It was now bright day in the room, and it lit up M. Madeleine's face.
The sister raised her eyes by chance.
"Good gracious, sir!"
she exclaimed; "what can have happened to you?
Your hair is quite white."
"What!"
he said.
Sister Simplice had no mirror, but she took from a drawer a small looking-glass which the infirmary doctor employed to make sure that a patient was dead.
M. Madeleine took this glass, looked at his hair, and said, "So it is."
He said it carelessly and as if thinking of something else, and the sister felt chilled by some unknown terror of which she caught a glimpse in all this.
He asked,--

"Can I see her?"
"Will you not recover her child for her, sir?"
the sister said, hardly daring to ask the question.
"Of course; but it will take at least two or three days."
"If she were not to see you till then, sir," the sister continued timidly, "she would not know that you had returned; it would be easy to keep her quiet, and when her child arrived, she would naturally think that you had returned with it.
That would not be telling a falsehood."
M. Madeleine appeared to reflect for a few moments, and then said with his calm gravity,--

"No, sister, I must see her, for I am possibly pressed for time."
The nun did not seem to notice the word "possibly," which gave an obscure and singular meaning to the Mayor's remark.
She answered in a low voice,--

"In that case you can go in, sir, though she is asleep."
He made a few remarks about a door that closed badly and whose creaking might awake the patient, then entered Fantine's room, went up to the bed, and opened the curtains.
She was asleep; her breath issued from her chest with that tragic sound peculiar to these diseases, which crushes poor mothers, who sit up at nights by the side of their sleeping child for whom there is no hope.
But this painful breathing scarce disturbed an ineffable serenity spread over her face, which transfigured her in her sleep.
Her pallor had become whiteness; her cheeks were carnations.
Her long, fair eyelashes, the sole beauty that remained of her virginity and youth, quivered, though remaining closed.
Her whole person trembled as if she had wings which were on the point of expanding and bearing her away.
To see her thus, no one could have believed that she was in an almost hopeless state, for she resembled rather a woman who is about to fly away than one who is going to die.
The branch, when the hand approaches to pluck the flowers, quivers and seems at once to retire and advance.
The human body undergoes something like this quiver when the moment arrives for the mysterious fingers of death to pluck the soul.
M. Madeleine stood for some time motionless near this bed, looking first at the patient and then at the crucifix, as he had done two months previously, on the day when he came for the first time to see her in this asylum.
They were both in the same attitude,--she sleeping, he praying; but in those two months her hair had turned gray, and his white.
The sister had not come in with him: he was standing by the bed-side, finger on lip, as if there were some one in the room whom he was bidding to be silent.
She opened her eyes, saw him, and said calmly and with a smile,--

"And Cosette?"
CHAPTER II.
FANTINE IS HAPPY.
She gave no start of surprise, no start of joy, for she was joy itself.
The simple question--"And Cosette?"
was asked in such profound faith, with so much certainty, with such an utter absence of anxiety and doubt, that he could not find a word to say.
She continued,--

"I knew you were there, for though I was asleep, I saw.
I have seen you for a long time, and have been following you with my eyes all night; you were in a glory, and had around you all sorts of heavenly faces."
She looked up to the crucifix.
"But," she continued, "tell me where Cosette is?
Why was she not laid in my bed so that I could see her directly I woke?"
He answered something mechanically which he could never remember.
Luckily the physician, who had been sent for, came to M. Madeleine's assistance.
"My dear girl," said the physician, "calm yourself; your child is here."
Fantine's eyes sparkled, and covered her whole face with brightness; she clasped her hands with an expression which contained all the violence and all the gentleness a prayer can have simultaneously.
"Oh," she exclaimed, "bring her to me!"
Touching maternal illusion!
Cosette was still to her the little child who must be carried.
"Not yet," the physician continued,--"not at this moment; you have a little fever hanging about you; the sight of your own child would agitate you and do you harm.
You must get well first."
She impetuously interrupted him,--

"But I am well!
I tell you I am well!
What a donkey this doctor is!
I insist on seeing my child."
"There, you see," the physician said, "how violent you are!
So long as you are like that, I will prevent your having your child.
It is not enough to see her, but you must live for her.
When you grow reasonable, I will bring her myself."
The poor mother hung her head.
"Doctor, I ask your pardon; I sincerely ask your pardon.
In former times I should not have spoken as I did just now, but I have gone through so much unhappiness that I do not know at times what I am saying.
I understand; you are afraid of the excitement; I will wait as long as you like, but I swear to you that it would not do me any harm to see my child.
Is it not very natural that I should want to see my child, who has been fetched from Montfermeil expressly for me?
I am not angry, for I know very well that I am going to be happy.
The whole night I have seen white things and smiling faces.
The doctor will bring me Cosette when he likes; I have no fever now, because I am cured; I feel that there is nothing the matter with me, but I will behave as if I were ill, and not stir, so as to please these ladies.
When you see that I am quite calm, you will say, We must give her her child."
M. Madeleine had seated himself in a chair by the bed-side; she turned to him, visibly making an effort to appear calm and "very good," as she said in that weakness of illness which resembles childhood, in order that, on seeing her so peaceful, there might be no difficulty in bringing Cosette to her.
Still, while checking herself, she could not refrain from asking M. Madeleine a thousand questions.
"Have you had a pleasant journey, sir?
Oh, how kind it was of you to go and fetch her for me!
Only tell me how she is.
Did she stand the journey well?
Alas!
she will not recognize, she will have forgotten me in all this time, poor darling!
Children have no memory.
They are like the birds; to-day they see one thing and another to-morrow, and do not think about anything.
Had she got clean underclothing?
Did those Thénardiers keep her clean?
What food did they give her?
Oh, if you only knew how I suffered when I asked myself all these questions during the period of my wretchedness!
But now it is all passed away and I am happy.
Oh, how I should like to see her!
Did you not find her very pretty, sir?
You must have been very cold in the stage-coach?
Can she not be brought here if only for a moment?
She could be taken away again directly afterwards.
You could do it if you liked, as you are the Mayor."
He took her hand and said: "Cosette is lovely, she is well, you will see her soon; but calm yourself.
You speak too eagerly and put your arms out of bed, which will make you cough."
In fact, a fit of coughing interrupted Fantine at nearly every word.
She did not object; she feared lest she had injured the confidence she had wished to inspire, by some too impassioned entreaties, and she began talking of indifferent matters.
"Montfermeil is a rather pretty place, is it not?
In summer, pleasure parties go there.
Have those Thénardiers a good trade?
Not many people pass through the village, and theirs is a sort of pot-house."
M. Madeleine still held her hand, and was looking at her anxiously; it was evident that he had come to tell her something at which he now hesitated.
The physician had left, and Sister Simplice alone remained near them.
"I can hear her, I can hear her!"
She held out her arms to command silence, held her breath, and began listening with ravishment.
A child was playing in the yard, and probably belonged to one of the workmen.
It was one of those accidents which constantly occur, and seem to form part of the mysterious _mise-en-scène_ of mournful events.
The child, a little girl, was running about to warm herself, laughing and singing loudly.
Alas!
what is there in which children's games are not mingled?
"Oh," Fantine continued, "'t is my Cosette!
I recognize her voice."
The child went away again.
Her voice died away.
Fantine listened for some time, and then her face was clouded, and M. Madeleine could hear her murmuring, "How unkind that doctor is not to let me see my child!
That man has a bad face."
Still, her merry ideas returned to her, and she continued to talk to herself, with her head on the pillow.
"How happy we are going to be!
We will have a small garden, for M. Madeleine has promised me that.
My child will play in the garden.
She must know her alphabet by this time, and I will teach her to spell.
She will chase butterflies, and I shall look at her.
Then, she will take her first communion; let me see when that will be."
She began counting on her fingers,--

"One, two, three, four,--she is now seven years old; in five years, then, she will wear a white open-work veil, and look like a little lady.
Oh, my good sister, you cannot think how foolish I am, for I am thinking of my daughter's first communion."
And she began laughing.
He had let go Fantine's hand, and listened to these words, as one listens to the soughing breeze, with his eyes fixed on the ground, and his mind plunged into unfathomable reflections.
All at once she ceased speaking, and this made him raise his head mechanically.
Fantine had become frightful to look at.
She no longer spoke, she no longer breathed; she was half sitting up, and her thin shoulder projected from her nightgown; her face, radiant a moment previously, was hard, and she seemed to be fixing her eyes, dilated by terror, upon something formidable that stood at the other end of the room.
"Great Heaven!"
he exclaimed; "what is the matter with you, Fantine?"
She did not answer, she did not remove her eyes from the object, whatever it might be, which she fancied she saw; but she touched his arm with one hand, and with the other made him a sign to look behind him.
He turned back and saw Javert.
CHAPTER III.
JAVERT IS SATISFIED.
This is what had occurred.
Half-past twelve was striking when M. Madeleine left the assize court of Arras; and he returned to the hotel just in time to start by the mail-cart in which he had booked his place.
A little before six A.M. he reached M----, and his first care was to post the letter for M. Lafitte, and then proceed to the infirmary and see Fantine.
Still, he had scarce quitted the court ere the public prosecutor, recovering from his stupor, rose on his legs, deplored the act of mania on the part of the honorable Mayor of M----, declared that his convictions were in no way modified by this strange incident, which would be cleared up at a later date, and demanded, in the interim, the conviction of this Champmathieu, evidently the true Jean Valjean.
The persistency of the public prosecutor was visibly in contradiction with the feelings of all,--the public, the court, and the jury.
The counsel for the defence had little difficulty in refuting his arguments, and establishing that through the revelations of M. Madeleine, that is to say, the real Jean Valjean, circumstances were entirely altered, and the jury had an innocent man before them.
The barrister deduced a few arguments, unfortunately rather stale, about judicial errors, etc., the President in his summing-up supported the defence, and the jury in a few moments acquitted Champmathieu.
Still, the public prosecutor wanted a Jean Valjean; and, as he no longer had Champmathieu, he took Madeleine.
Immediately after Champmathieu was acquitted, he had a conference with the President as to the necessity of seizing the person of the Mayor of M----, and after the first emotion had passed, the President raised but few objections.
Justice must take its course; and then, to tell the whole truth, although the President was a kind and rather sensible man, he was at the same time a very ardent Royalist, and had been offended by the way in which the Mayor of M----, in alluding to the landing at Cannes, employed the words "the Emperor" and not "Buonaparte."
The order of arrest was consequently made out, and the prosecutor at once sent it off by express to M----, addressed to Inspector Javert, who, as we know, returned home immediately after he had given his evidence.
Javert was getting up at the moment when the messenger handed him the order of arrest and the warrant.
This messenger was himself a very skilful policeman, who informed Javert in two words of what had occurred at Arras.
The order of arrest, signed by the public prosecutor, was thus conceived: "Inspector Javert will apprehend Monsieur Madeleine, Mayor of M----, who in this day's session was recognized as the liberated convict, Jean Valjean."
Any one who did not know Javert and had seen him at the moment when he entered the infirmary ante-room, could not have guessed what was taking place, but would have considered him to be as usual.
He was cold, calm, serious, his gray hair was smoothed down on his temples, and he went up the stairs with his usual slowness.
But any one who was well acquainted with him, and examined him closely, would have shuddered; the buckle of his leathern stock, instead of sitting in the nape of his neck, was under his left ear.
This revealed an extraordinary agitation.
Javert was a complete character, without a crease in his duty or in his uniform: methodical with criminals, and rigid with his coat-buttons.
For him to have his stock out of order, it was necessary for him to be suffering from one of those emotions which might be called internal earthquakes.
He had merely fetched a corporal and four men from the guardhouse close by, left them in the yard, and had Fantine's room pointed out to him by the unsuspecting portress, who was accustomed to see policemen ask for the Mayor.
On reaching Fantine's door, Javert turned the key, pushed the door with the gentleness either of a sick-nurse or a spy, and entered.
Correctly speaking, he did not enter: he stood in the half-opened door with his hat on his head, and his left hand thrust into the breast of his great-coat, which was buttoned to the chin.
Under his elbow could be seen the leaden knob of his enormous cane, which was concealed behind his back.
He remained thus for many a minute, no one perceiving his presence.
All at once Fantine raised her eyes, saw him, and made M. Madeleine turn.
At the moment when Madeleine's glance met Javert's, the latter, without stirring or drawing near, became fearful.
No human feeling can succeed in being so horrible as joy.
It was the face of a fiend who has just found a condemned soul again.
The certainty of at length holding Jean Valjean caused all he had in his soul to appear on his countenance, and the stirred-up sediment rose to the surface.
The humiliation of having lost the trail for a while and having been mistaken with regard to Champmathieu was effaced by his pride at having guessed so correctly at the beginning, and having a right instinct for such a length of time.
Javert's satisfaction was displayed in his sovereign attitude, and the deformity of triumph was spread over his narrow forehead.
Javert at this moment was in heaven: without distinctly comprehending the fact, but still with a confused intuition of his necessity and his success, he, Javert, personified justice, light, and truth in their celestial function of crushing evil.
He had behind him, around him, at an infinite depth, authority, reason, the legal conscience, the public vindication, all the stars: he protected order, he drew the lightning from the law, he avenged society, he rendered assistance to the absolute.
There was in his victory a remnant of defiance and contest: upright, haughty, and dazzling, he displayed the superhuman bestiality of a ferocious archangel in the bright azure of heaven.
The formidable shadow of the deed he was doing rendered visible to his clutching fist the flashing social sword.
Happy and indignant, he held beneath his heel, crime, vice, perdition, rebellion, and hell: he was radiant, he exterminated, he smiled, and there was an incontestable grandeur in this monstrous St. Michael.
Javert, though terrifying, was not ignoble.
Probity, sincerity, candor, conviction, and the idea of duty, are things which, by deceiving themselves, may become hideous, but which, even if hideous, remain grand; their majesty, peculiar to the human conscience, persists in horror; they are virtues which have but one vice, error.
The pitiless honest joy of a fanatic, in the midst of his atrocity, retains a mournfully venerable radiance.
Without suspecting it, Javert, in his formidable happiness, was worthy of pity, like every ignorant man who triumphs; nothing could be so poignant and terrible as this face, in which was displayed all that may be called the wickedness of good.
CHAPTER IV.
AUTHORITY RESUMES ITS RIGHTS.
Fantine had not seen Javert since the day when the Mayor tore her out of his clutches, and her sickly brain could form no other thought but that he had come to fetch her.
She could not endure his frightful face: she felt herself dying.
She buried her face in her hands, and cried with agony,--

"Monsieur Madeleine, save me!"
Jean Valjean--we will not call him otherwise in future--had risen, and said to Fantine in his gentlest, calmest voice,--

"Do not be alarmed: he has not come for you."
Then he turned to Javert and said,--

"I know what you want."
And Javert answered,--

"Come, make haste--"

There was something savage and frenzied in the accent that accompanied these words; no orthographer could write it down, for it was no longer human speech, but a roar.
He did not behave as usual, he did not enter into the matter or display his warrant.
To him Jean Valjean was a sort of mysterious combatant, a dark wrestler with whom he had been struggling for five years, and had been unable to throw.
This arrest was not a beginning but an end, and he confined himself to saying, "Come, make haste."
While speaking thus, he did not advance: he merely darted at Jean Valjean the look which he threw out as a grapple, and with which he violently drew wretches to him.
It was this look which Fantine had felt pierce to her marrow two months before.
On hearing Javert's roar, Fantine opened her eyes again; but the Mayor was present, so what had she to fear?
Javert walked into the middle of the room and cried,--

"Well, are you coming?"
The unhappy girl looked around her.
No one was present but the nun and the Mayor; to whom, then, could this humiliating remark be addressed?
Only to herself.
She shuddered.
Then she saw an extraordinary thing,--so extraordinary that nothing like it had ever appeared in the darkest delirium of fever.
She saw the policeman Javert seize the Mayor by the collar, and she saw the Mayor bow his head.
It seemed to her as if the end of the world had arrived.
"Monsieur le Maire!"
Fantine screamed.
Javert burst into a laugh,--that frightful laugh which showed all his teeth.
"There is no Monsieur le Maire here."
Jean Valjean did not attempt to remove the hand that grasped his collar; he said,--

"Javert--"

Javert interrupted him: "Call me Monsieur the Inspector."
"I should like to say a word to you in private, sir," Jean Valjean continued.
"Speak up," Javert answered; "people talk aloud to me."
Jean Valjean went on in a low voice,--

"It is a request I have to make of you."
"I tell you to speak up."
"But it must only be heard by yourself--"

"What do I care for that?
I am not listening!"
Jean Valjean turned to him and said rapidly, and in a very low voice,--

"Grant me three days,--three days to go and fetch this unhappy woman's child!
I will pay whatever you ask, and you can accompany me if you like."
"You must be joking," Javert cried.
"Why, I did not think you such a fool!
You ask three days of me that you may bolt!
You say that it is to fetch this girl's brat!
Ah, ah, that is rich, very rich!"
Fantine had a tremor.
"My child!"
she exclaimed,--"to go and fetch my child?
Then she is not here!
Sister, answer me,--where is Cosette?
I want my child!
Monsieur Madeleine, M. le Maire!"
Javert stamped his foot.
"There's the other beginning now; will you be quiet, wench?
A devil's own country, where galley-slaves are magistrates, and street-walkers are nursed like countesses.
Well, well, it will be altered now, and it's time for it."
He looked fixedly at Fantine, and added, as he took a fresh hold of Jean Valjean's cravat, shirt, and coat-collar,--

"I tell you there is no M. Madeleine and no Monsieur le Maire; but there is a robber, a brigand, a convict of the name of Jean Valjean, and I've got him,--that's what there is!"
Fantine rose, supporting herself on her stiffened arms and hands; she looked at Jean Valjean; she looked at Javert; she looked at the nun; she opened her mouth as if to speak, but there was a rattle in her throat, her teeth chattered, she stretched out her arms, convulsively opening her hands, clutching like a drowning man, and then suddenly fell back on the pillow.
Her head struck against the bed-head, and fell back on her breast with gaping mouth and open eyes.
She was dead.
Jean Valjean laid his hand on that one of Javert's which held him, opened it as if it had been a child's hand, and then said to Javert,--

"You have killed this woman."
"Enough of this!"
Javert shouted furiously.
"I am not here to listen to abuse, so you can save your breath.
There is a guard down below, so come quickly, or I shall handcuff you."
There was in the corner of the room an old iron bedstead in a bad condition, which the sisters used as a sofa when they were sitting up at night.
Jean Valjean went to this bed, tore off in a twinkling the head piece,--an easy thing for muscles like his,--seized the supporting bar, and looked at Javert.
Javert recoiled to the door.
Jean Valjean, with the iron bar in his hand, walked slowly up to Fantine's bed; when he reached it, he turned and said to Javert in a scarcely audible voice,--

"I would advise you not to disturb me just at present."
One thing is certain,--Javert trembled.
He thought of going to fetch the guard, but Jean Valjean might take advantage of the moment to escape.
He therefore remained, clutched his stick by the small end, and leaned against the door-post, without taking his eyes off Jean Valjean.
The latter rested his elbow on the bedstead, and his forehead on his hand, and began contemplating Fantine, who lay motionless before him.
He remained thus, absorbed and silent, and evidently not thinking of anything else in the world.
On his face and in his attitude there was only an indescribable pity.
After a few minutes passed in this reverie, he stooped over Fantine and spoke to her in a low voice.
What did he say to her?
What could this outcast man say to this dead woman?
No one on earth heard the words, but did that dead woman hear them?
There are touching illusions, which are perhaps sublime realities.
One thing is indubitable, that Sister Simplice, the sole witness of what took place, has frequently declared that at the moment when Jean Valjean whispered in Fantine's ear, she distinctly saw an ineffable smile playing round her pale lips and in her vague eyeballs, which were full of the amazement of the tomb.
Jean Valjean took Fantine's head in his hands, and laid it on the pillow, as a mother might have done to a child.
Then he tied the strings of her nightgown, and thrust her hair under her cap.
When this was done, he closed her eyes.
Fantine's face at this moment seemed strangely illumined, for death is the entrance into brilliant light.
Fantine's hand was hanging out of bed; Jean Valjean knelt down by this hand, gently raised and kissed it.
Then he rose and turned to Javert,--

"Now I am at your service."
CHAPTER V.

A VERY PROPER TOMB.
Javert placed Jean Valjean in the town jail.
The arrest of M. Madeleine produced an extraordinary commotion in M----, but it is sad to have to say that nearly everybody abandoned him on hearing that he was a galley-slave.
In less than two hours all the good he had done was forgotten, and he was only a galley-slave.
It is but fair to say, though, that they did not yet know the details of the affair at Arras.
The whole day through, conversations like the following could be heard in all parts of the town:--

"Don't you know?
he is a liberated convict.--Who is?--The Mayor.--Nonsense.
M.
Madeleine?--Yes.--Really?--His name is not Madeleine, but some hideous thing like Béjean, Bojean, Boujean.--Oh, my goodness--he has been arrested, and will remain in the town jail till he is removed.--Removed!
where to?--He will be tried at the assizes for a highway robbery which he formerly committed.--Well, do you know, I always suspected that man, for he was too kind, too perfect, too devout.
He refused the cross, and gave sous to all the little scamps he met.
I always thought that there was some black story behind."
The "drawing-rooms" greatly improved the occasion.
An old lady, who subscribed to the _Drapeau Blanc_, made this remark, whose depth it is almost impossible to fathom,--

"Well, I do not feel sorry at it, for it will be a lesson to the Buonapartists."
It is thus that the phantom which called itself M. Madeleine faded away at M----; only three or four persons in the whole town remained faithful to his memory, and his old servant was one of them.
On the evening of the same day this worthy old woman was sitting in her lodge, still greatly startled and indulging in sad thoughts.
The factory had been closed all day, the gates were bolted, and the street was deserted.
There was no one in the house but the two nuns, who were watching by Fantine's body.
Toward the hour when M. Madeleine was wont to come in, the worthy portress rose mechanically, took the key of M. Madeleine's bed-room from a drawer, and the candlestick which he used at night to go up-stairs; then she hung the key on the nail from which he usually took it, and placed the candlestick by its side, as if she expected him.
Then she sat down again and began thinking.
The poor old woman had done all this unconsciously.
She did not break off her reverie for two or three hours, and then exclaimed: "Only think of that!
I have hung his key on the nail!"
At this moment the window of the lodge was opened, a hand was passed through the opening, which seized the key and lit the candle by hers.
The portress raised her eyes, and stood with gaping mouth, but she repressed the cry which was in her throat; for she recognized this hand, this arm, this coat-sleeve, as belonging to M. Madeleine.
It was some minutes ere she could speak, for she "was struck," as she said afterwards when describing the adventure.
"Good gracious, M. le Maire!"
she at length exclaimed, "I fancied--"

She stopped, for the end of the sentence would have been disrespectful to the first part.
Jean Valjean was still Monsieur le Maire with her.
He completed her thought.
"That I was in prison?"
he said.
"I was so, but I pulled out a bar, leaped out, and here I am.
I am going up to my room; go and fetch Sister Simplice, who doubtless is by the side of that poor woman."
The old servant hastened to obey; he said nothing further to her, for he was quite sure that she would guard him better than he could himself.
It was never known how he managed to get into the yard without having the gate opened.
He always carried about him a master-key, which opened a little side door, but he must have been searched and this key taken from him.
This point was not cleared up.
He went up the stairs that led to his room, and on reaching the landing, left the candle on the top stair, closed his window and shutters, and then entered the room with the candle.
This precaution was useful, for it will be remembered that his window could be noticed from the street.
He took a glance around him, at his table, his chair, his bed, which had not been slept in for three nights.
No trace of that night's disorder remained, for the portress "had done his room;" but she had picked out of the ashes and laid neatly on the table the two iron ends of the stick and the forty-sous piece, which was blackened by the fire.
He took a sheet of paper, on which he wrote, "This is the two-franc piece stolen from Little Gervais to which I alluded in court," and he laid the coin on the paper, so that it should be the first thing seen on entering the room.
He took from a drawer an old shirt which he tore up, and wrapped the two candlesticks in the rags.
Still, he displayed no haste or agitation, and while wrapping up the candlesticks he ate a piece of black bread,--probably the prison bread which he took with him on his escape.
This fact was proved by the crumbs found on the boards when the authorities made an investigation at a later date.
There were two gentle taps at the door.
"Come in," he said.
It was Sister Simplice; she was pale, her eyes were red, and the candle she held shook in her hand.
Violent events of destiny have this peculiarity, that however perfect or cold we may be, they draw human nature out of our entrails and compel it to reappear on the surface.
In the emotions of this day the nun had become a woman again; she had wept and was trembling.
Jean Valjean had just finished writing some lines on a piece of paper, which he handed to the sister, with the remark, "Sister, you will deliver this to the Curé?"
As the paper was open, she turned her eyes on it.
"You may read it," he said.
She read, "I request the Curé to take charge of all that I leave here.
He will be good enough to defray out of it the costs of my trial and the interment of the woman who died this morning.
The rest will be for the poor."
The sister attempted to speak, but could only produce a few inarticulate sounds: at length she managed to say,--

"Do you not wish to see the poor unhappy girl for the last time, sir?"
"No," he said; "I am pursued, and if I were to be arrested in her room it would disturb her."
He had scarce said this, ere a great noise broke out on the staircase: they heard a tumult of ascending steps, and the old servant cry in her loudest and most piercing voice,--

"My good sir, I can take my oath that no one has come in here all day or all the evening, and I have not left my lodge once."
A man answered,--

"But there is a light in that room."
They recognized Javert's voice.
The room was so built that the door, on being thrown open, concealed a nook in the right-hand wall: Jean Valjean blew out the light and crept into the nook.
Sister Simplice fell on her knees by the table, as the door opened and Javert entered.
The voices of several men and the protestations of the old portress could be heard.
The nun did not raise her eyes: she was praying.
Her candle was on the chimney and gave but little light, and on noticing the nun, Javert halted in great confusion.
It will be remembered that the very basis of Javert, his element, the air he breathed, was reverence for all authority: he was all of one piece, and allowed no objection or limitation.
With him, of course, ecclesiastical authority was the highest of all: he was religious, superficial, and correct on this point as on all.
In his eyes, a priest was a spirit that does not deceive, a nun a creature who does not sin.
Theirs were souls walled up against the world with only one door, which never opened except to let truth pass out.
On noticing the sister, his first movement was to withdraw, but he had another duty too, which imperiously urged him in an opposite direction.
His second impulse was to remain, and at least venture one question.
Sister Simplice had never told a falsehood in her life: Javert was aware of this, and especially revered her for it.
"Sister," he asked, "are you alone in the room?"
There was a terrible moment, during which the old servant felt as if she were going to faint: the sister raised her eyes and said, "Yes."
"In that case," Javert continued, "I beg your pardon for pressing you, but it is my duty,--you have not seen this evening a person, a man who has escaped and we are seeking,--that fellow of the name of Jean Valjean.
Have you seen him?"
The sister answered "No."
She had told two falsehoods, one upon the other, without hesitation, rapidly, as if devoting herself.
"I beg your pardon," said Javert; and he withdrew with a deep bow.
Oh, holy woman!
it is many years since you were on this earth; you have rejoined in the light your sisters the virgins and your brothers the angels; may this falsehood be placed to your credit in Paradise!
The sister's assertion was so decisive for Javert that he did not notice the singular fact of the candle just blown out, and which was still smoking on the table.
An hour later a man, making his way through the fog, was hurrying away from M---- in the direction of Paris.
This man was Jean Valjean; and it was proved, by the testimony of two or three carriers who met him, that he was carrying a bundle and was dressed in a blouse.
Where did he procure this blouse from?
It was never known; but a few days before, an old workman had died in the infirmary of the sailors, leaving only a blouse.
It might have been that one.
One last word about Fantine.
We have all one mother, the earth, and Fantine was given back to that mother.
The Curé thought he was doing his duty, and perhaps did it, in keeping as much money for the poor as he possibly could out of what Jean Valjean left him.
After all, who were the people interested?
A convict and a street-walker: hence he simplified Fantine's interment, and reduced it to what is called the "public grave."
Fantine was therefore interred in the free corner of the cemetery, which belongs to everybody and to nobody, and where the poor are lost.
Fortunately God knows where to look for a soul.
Fantine was laid in the darkness among a pile of promiscuous bones in the public grave.
Her tomb resembled her bed.