CHAPTER I.
PITY THE UNHAPPY, BUT BE INDULGENT TO THE HAPPY.
It is a terrible thing to be happy!
How satisfied people are!
How sufficient they find it!
How, when possessed of the false object of life, happiness, they forget the true one, duty!
We are bound to say, however, that it would be unjust to accuse Marius.
Marius, as we have explained, before his marriage asked no questions of M. Fauchelevent, and since had been afraid to ask any of Jean Valjean.
He had regretted the promise which he had allowed to be drawn from him, and had repeatedly said to himself that he had done wrong in making this concession to despair.
He had restricted himself to gradually turning Jean Valjean out of his house, and effacing him as far as possible in Cosette's mind.
He had to some extent constantly stationed himself between Cosette and Jean Valjean, feeling certain that in this way she would not perceive it or think of it.
It was more than an effacement,--it was an eclipse.
Marius did what he considered necessary and just; he believed that he had serious reasons, some of which we have seen, and some we have yet to see, for getting rid of Jean Valjean, without harshness, but without weakness.
Chance having made him acquainted, in a trial in which he was retained, with an ex-clerk of Laffitte's bank, he had obtained, without seeking it, mysterious information, which, in truth, he had not been able to examine, through respect for the secret he had promised to keep, and through regard for Jean Valjean's perilous situation.
He believed, at this very moment, that he had a serious duty to perform,--the restitution of the six hundred thousand francs to some one whom he was seeking as discreetly as he could.
In the mean while he abstained from touching that money.
As for Cosette, she was not acquainted with any of these secrets, but it would be harsh to condemn her either.
Between Marius and her was an omnipotent magnetism, which made her do instinctively and almost mechanically whatever Marius wished.
She felt a wish of Marius in the matter of Monsieur Jean, and she conformed to it.
Her husband had said nothing to her, but she suffered the vague but clear pressure of his tacit intentions, and blindly obeyed.
Her obedience in this case consisted in not remembering what Marius forgot; and she had no effort to make in doing so.
Without knowing why herself, and without there being anything to blame her for, her mind had so thoroughly become that of her husband, that whatever covered itself with a shadow in Marius's thoughts was obscured in hers.
Let us not go too far, however; as regards Jean Valjean, this effacement and this forgetfulness were only superficial, and she was thoughtless rather than forgetful.
In her heart she truly loved the man whom she had so long called father; but she loved her husband more, and this had slightly falsified the balance of this heart, which weighed down on one side only.
It happened at times that Cosette would speak of Jean Valjean and express her surprise, and then Marius would calm her.
"He is away, I believe; did he not say that he was going on a journey?"
"That is true," Cosette thought, "he used to disappear like that, but not for so long a time."
Twice or thrice she sent Nicolette to inquire in the Rue de l'Homme Armé whether Monsieur Jean had returned from his tour, and Jean Valjean sent answer in the negative.
Cosette asked no more, as she had on earth but one want,--Marius.
Let us also say that Marius and Cosette had been absent too.
They went to Vernon, and Marius took Cosette to his father's tomb.
Marius had gradually abstracted Cosette from Jean Valjean, and Cosette had allowed it.
However, what is called much too harshly in certain cases the ingratitude of children is not always so reprehensible a thing as may be believed.
It is the ingratitude of nature; for nature, as we have said elsewhere, "looks before her," and divides living beings into arrivals and departures.
The departures are turned to the darkness, and the arrivals toward light.
Hence a divergence, which on the part of the old is fatal, on the part of the young is involuntary; and this divergence, at first insensible, increases slowly, like every separation of branches, and the twigs separate without detaching themselves from the parent stem.
It is not their fault, for youth goes where there is joy, to festivals, to bright light, and to love, while old age proceeds toward the end.
They do not lose each other out of sight, but there is no longer a connecting link: the young people feel the chill of life, and the old that of the tomb.
Let us not accuse these poor children.
CHAPTER II.
THE LAST FLUTTERINGS OF THE LAMP WITHOUT OIL.
One day Jean Valjean went down his staircase, took three steps in the street, sat down upon a post, the same one on which Gavroche had found him sitting in thought on the night of June 5; he stayed there a few minutes, and then went up again.
This was the last oscillation of the pendulum; the next day he did not leave his room; the next to that he did not leave his bed.
The porter's wife, who prepared his poor meals for him, some cabbage or a few potatoes and a little bacon, looked at the brown earthenware plate and exclaimed,--

"Why, poor dear man, you ate nothing yesterday!"
"Yes, I did," Jean Valjean answered.
"The plate is quite full."
"Look at the water-jug: it is empty."
"That proves you have drunk, but does not prove that you have eaten."
"Well," said Jean Valjean, "suppose that I only felt hungry for water?"
"That is called thirst, and if a man does not eat at the same time it is called fever."
"I will eat to-morrow."
"Or on Trinity Sunday.
Why not to-day?
Who-ever ever thought of saying, I will eat to-morrow?
To leave my plate without touching it; my rashers were so good."
Jean Valjean took the old woman's hand.
"I promise you to eat them," he said, in his gentle voice.
"I am not pleased with you," the woman replied.
Jean Valjean never saw any other human creature but this good woman: there are in Paris streets through which people never pass, and houses which people never enter, and he lived in one of those streets and one of those houses.
During the time when he still went out he had bought at a brazier's for a few sous a small copper crucifix, which he suspended from a nail opposite his bed; that gibbet is ever good to look on.
A week passed thus, and Jean Valjean still remained in bed.
The porter's wife said to her husband, "The old gentleman upstairs does not get up; he does not eat, and he will not last long.
He has a sorrow, and no one will get it out of my head but that his daughter has made a bad match."
The porter replied, with the accent of marital sovereignty,--

"If he is rich, he can have a doctor; if he is not rich, he can't.
If he has no doctor, he will die."
"And if he has one?"
"He will die," said the porter.
The porter's wife began digging up with an old knife the grass between what she called her pavement, and while doing so grumbled,--

"It's a pity--an old man who is so tidy.
He is as white as a pullet."
She saw a doctor belonging to the quarter passing along the bottom of the street, and took upon herself to ask him to go up.
"It's on the second floor," she said; "you will only have to go in, for, as the old gentleman no longer leaves his bed, the key is always in the door."
The physician saw Jean Valjean and spoke to him: when he came down again the porter's wife was waiting for him.
"Well, doctor?"
"He is very ill."

"What is the matter with him?"
"Everything and nothing.
He is a man who, from all appearances, has lost a beloved person.
People die of that."
"What did he say to you?"
"He told me that he was quite well."
"Will you call again, doctor?"
"Yes," the physician replied, "but some one beside me ought to come too."
CHAPTER III.
A PEN IS TOO HEAVY FOR THE MAN WHO LIFTED FAUCHELEVENT'S CART.
One evening Jean Valjean had a difficulty in rising on his elbow; he took hold of his wrist and could not find his pulse; his breathing was short, and stopped every now and then, and he perceived that he was weaker than he had ever yet been.
Then, doubtless, under the pressure of some supreme preoccupation, he made an effort, sat up, and dressed himself.
He put on his old workman's clothes; for, as he no longer went out, he had returned to them and preferred them.
He was compelled to pause several times while dressing himself; and the perspiration poured off his forehead, merely through the effort of putting on his jacket.
Ever since he had been alone he had placed his bed in the anteroom, so as to occupy as little as possible of the deserted apartments.
He opened the valise and took out Cosette's clothing, which he spread on his bed.
The Bishop's candlesticks were at their place on the mantel-piece; he took two wax candles out of a drawer and put them up, and then, though it was broad summer daylight, he lit them.
We sometimes see candles lighted thus in open day in rooms where dead men are lying.
Each step he took in going from one article of furniture to another exhausted him, and he was obliged to sit down.
It was not ordinary fatigue, which expends the strength in order to renew it; it was the remnant of possible motion; it was exhausted life falling drop by drop in crushing efforts which will not be made again.
One of the chairs on which he sank was placed near the mirror, so fatal for him, so providential for Marius, in which he had read Cosette's reversed writing on the blotting-book.
He saw himself in this mirror, and could not recognize himself.
He was eighty years of age; before Marius's marriage he had looked scarce fifty, but the last year had reckoned as thirty.
What he had on his forehead was no longer the wrinkle of age, but the mysterious mark of death, and the laceration of the pitiless nail could be traced on it.
His cheeks were flaccid; the skin of his face had that color which makes one think that the earth is already over it; the two corners of his mouth drooped as in that mask which the ancients sculptured on the tomb.
He looked at space reproachfully, and he resembled one of those tragic beings who have cause to complain of some one.
He had reached that stage, the last phase of dejection, in which grief no longer flows; it is, so to speak, coagulated, and there is on the soul something like a clot of despair.
Night had set in, and he with difficulty dragged a table and the old easy-chair to the chimney, and laid on the table, pen, ink, and paper.
This done he feinted away, and when he regained his senses he was thirsty.
As he could not lift the water-jar, he bent down with an effort and drank a mouthful.
Then he turned to the bed, and, still seated, for he was unable to stand, he gazed at the little black dress and all those dear objects.
Such contemplations last hours which appear minutes.
All at once he shuddered, and felt that the cold had struck him.
He leaned his elbows on the table which the Bishop's candlesticks illumined, and took up the pen.
As neither the pen nor the ink had been used for a long time, the nibs of the pen were bent, the ink was dried up, and he was therefore obliged to put a few drops of water in the ink, which he could not do without stopping and sitting down twice or thrice, and was forced to write with the back of the pen.
He wiped his forehead from time to time, and his hand trembled as he wrote the few following lines:--

"COSETTE,---I bless you.
I am about to explain to you.
Your husband did right in making me understand that I ought to go away; still, he was slightly in error as to what he believed, but he acted rightly.
He is a worthy man, and love him dearly when I am gone from you.
Monsieur Pontmercy, always love my beloved child.
Cosette, this paper will be found: this is what I wish to say to you; you shall see the figures if I have the strength to remember them; but listen to me, the money is really yours.
This is the whole affair.
White jet comes from Norway, black jet comes from England, and black beads come from Germany.
Jet is lighter, more valuable, and dearer; but imitations can be made in France as well as in Germany.
You must have a small anvil two inches square, and a spirit lamp to soften the wax.
The wax used to be made with resin and smoke-black, and costs four francs the pound; but I hit on the idea of making it of gum-lac and turpentine.
It only costs thirty sous, and is much better.
The rings are made of violet glass, fastened by means of the wax on a small black iron wire.
The glass must be violet for iron ornaments, and black for gilt ornaments.
Spain buys large quantities; it is the country of jet---"

Here he stopped, the pen slipped from his fingers, he burst into one of those despairing sobs which rose at times from the depths of his being.
The poor man took his head between his hands and thought.
"Oh!"
he exclaimed internally (lamentable cries heard by God alone), "it is all over.
I shall never see her again; it is a smile which flashed across me, and I am going to enter night without even seeing her.
Oh!
for one moment, for one instant to hear her voice, to touch her, to look at her,--her, the angel, and then die!
Death is nothing, but the frightful thing is to die without seeing her!
She would smile on me, say a word to me, and would that do any one harm?
No, it is all over forever.
I am now all alone.
My God!
my God!
I shall see her no more."
At this moment there was a knock at his door.
CHAPTER IV.
A BOTTLE OF INK WHICH ONLY WHITENS.
That same day, or, to speak more correctly, that same evening, as Marius was leaving the dinner-table to withdraw to his study, as he had a brief to get up, Basque handed him a letter, saying, "The person who wrote the letter is in the anteroom."
Cosette had seized her grandfather's arm, and was taking a turn round the garden.
A letter may have an ugly appearance, like a man, and the mere sight of coarse paper and clumsy folding is displeasing.
The letter which Basque brought was of that description.
Marius took it, and it smelt of tobacco.
Nothing arouses a recollection so much as a smell, and Marius recognized the tobacco.
He looked at the address, "To Monsieur le Baron Pommerci, At his house."
The recognized tobacco made him recognize the handwriting.
It might be said that astonishment has its flashes of lightning, and Marius was, as it were, illumined by one of these flashes.
The odor, that mysterious aid to memory, had recalled to him a world: it was really the paper, the mode of folding, the pale ink; it was really the well-known handwriting; and, above all, it was the tobacco.
The Jondrette garret rose again before him.
Hence--strange blow of accident!--one of the two trails which he had so long sought, the one for which he had latterly made so many efforts and believed lost forever, came to offer itself voluntarily to him.
He eagerly opened the letter and read:--

"MONSIEUR LE BARON,--If the Supreme Being had endowed me with talents, I might have been Baron Thénard, member of the Institute (academy of ciences), but I am not so.
I merely bear the same name with him, and shall be happy if this reminisence recommends me to the excellense of your kindness.
The benefits with which you may honor me will be reciprocal, for I am in possession of a secret conserning an individual.
This individual conserns you.
I hold the secret at your disposal, as I desire to have the honor of being uceful to you.
I will give you the simple means for expeling from your honorable family this individual who has no right in it, Madam la Barronne being of high birth.
The sanctuary of virtue could no longer coabit with crime without abdicating.
"I await in the anteroom the order of Monsieur le Baron.
"Respectfully."
The letter was signed "THÉNARD."
This signature was not false, but only slightly abridged.
However, the bombast and the orthography completed the revelation, the certificate of origin was perfect, and no doubt was possible.
Marius's emotion was profound; and after the movement of surprise he had a movement of happiness.
Let him now find the other man he sought, the man who had saved him, Marius, and he would have nothing more to desire.
He opened a drawer in his bureau, took out several bank-notes, which he put in his pocket, closed the drawer again, and rang.
Basque opened the door partly.
"Show the man in," said Marius.
Basque announced,--

"M.
Thénard."
A man came in, and it was a fresh surprise for Marius, as the man he now saw was a perfect stranger to him.
This man, who was old, by the way, had a large nose, his chin in his cravat, green spectacles, with a double shade of green silk over his eyes, and his hair smoothed down and flattened on his forehead over his eyebrows, like the wig of English coachmen of high life.
His hair was gray.
He was dressed in black from head to foot,--a very seedy but clean black,--and a bunch of seals, emerging from his fob, led to the supposition that he had a watch.
He held an old hat in his hand, and walked bent, and the curve in his back augmented the depth of his bow.
The thing which struck most at the first glance was that this person's coat, too large, though carefully buttoned, had not been made for him.
A short digression is necessary here.
There was at that period in Paris, in an old house situated in the Rue Beautreillis near the arsenal, an old Jew whose trade it was to convert a rogue into an honest man, though not for too long a period, as it might have been troublesome to the rogue.
The change was effected at sight, for one day or two, at the rate of thirty sous a day, by means of a costume resembling as closely as possible every-day honesty.
This letter-out of suits was called the "exchange-broker."
Parisian thieves had given him that name, and knew him by no other.
He had a very complete wardrobe, and the clothes in which he invested people suited almost every condition.
He had specialties and categories: from each nail of his store hung a social station, worn and threadbare; here the magistrate's coat, there the curé's coat, and the banker's coat; in one corner the coat of an officer on half pay, elsewhere the coat of a man of letters, and further on the statesman's coat.
This creature was the costumer of the immense drama which roguery plays in Paris, and his den was the side-scene from which robbery went out or swindling re-entered.
A ragged rogue arrived at this wardrobe, deposited thirty sous, and selected, according to the part which he wished to play on that day, the clothes which suited him; and, on going down the stairs again, the rogue was somebody.
The next day the clothes were faithfully brought back, and the "exchange-broker," who entirely trusted to the thieves, was never robbed.
These garments had one inconvenience,--they did not fit; not being made for the man who wore them, they were tight on one, loose on another, and fitted nobody.
Any swindler who exceeded the average mean in height or shortness was uncomfortable in the "exchange-broker's" suits.
A man must be neither too stout nor too thin, for the broker had only provided for ordinary mortals, and had taken the measure of the species in the person of the first thief who turned up, and is neither stout nor thin, nor tall nor short.
Hence arose at times difficult adaptations, which the broker's customers got over as best they could.
All the worse for the exceptions!
The statesman's garments, for instance, black from head to foot, would have been too loose for Pitt and too tight for Castelcicala.
The statesman's suit was thus described in the broker's catalogue, from which we copied it: "A black cloth coat, black moleskin trousers, a silk waistcoat, boots, and white shirt."
There was on the margin "Ex-Ambassador," and a note which we also transcribe: "In a separate box a carefully-dressed peruke, green spectacles, bunch of seals, and two little quills an inch in length, wrapped in cotton."
All this belonged to the statesman or ex-ambassador.
The whole of this costume was, if we may say so, extenuated.
The seams were white, and a small button-hole gaped at one of the elbows; moreover, a button was missing off the front, but that is only a detail, for as the hand of the statesman must always be thrust into the coat, and upon the heart, it had the duty of hiding the absence of the button.
Had Marius been familiar with the occult institutions of Paris, he would at once have recognized in the back of the visitor whom Basque had just shown in, the coat of the statesman borrowed from the Unhook-me-that of the "exchange-broker."
Marius's disappointment on seeing a different man from the one whom he expected to enter, turned into disgust with the new-comer.
He examined him from head to foot, while the personage was giving him an exaggerated bow, and asked him curtly, "What do you want?"
The man replied with an amiable _rictus_, of which the caressing smile of a crocodile would supply some idea:--

"It appears to me impossible that I have not already had the honor of seeing Monsieur le Baron in society.
I have a peculiar impression of having met him a few years back at the Princess Bagration's, and in the salons of his Excellency Vicomte Dambray, Peer of France."
It is always good tactics in swindling to pretend to recognize a person whom the swindler does not know.
Marius paid attention to the man's words, he watched the action and movement, but his disappointment increased; it was a nasal pronunciation, absolutely different from the sharp dry voice he expected.
He was utterly routed.
"I do not know," he said, "either Madame Bagration or Monsieur Dambray.
I never set foot in the house of either of them."
The answer was rough, but the personage continued with undiminished affability,--

"Then it must have been at Chateaubriand's that I saw Monsieur!
I know Chateaubriand intimately, and he is a most affable man.
He says to me sometimes, Thénard, my good friend, will you not drink a glass with me?"
Marius's brow became sterner and sterner.
"I never had the honor of being received at M. de Chateaubriand's house.
Come to the point; what do you want with me?"
The man bowed lower still before this harsh voice.
"Monsieur le Baron, deign to listen to me.
There is in America, in a country near Panama, a village called La Joya, and this village is composed of a single house.
A large square house three stories high, built of bricks dried in the sun, each side of the square being five hundred feet long, and each story retiring from the one under it for a distance of twelve feet, so as to leave in front of it a terrace which runs all round the house.
In the centre is an inner court, in which provisions and ammunition are stored; there are no windows, only loop-holes, no door, only ladders,--ladders to mount from the ground to the first terrace, and from the first to the second, and from the second to the third; ladders to descend into the inner court; no doors to the rooms, only traps; no staircases to the apartments, only ladders.
At night the trap-doors are closed, the ladders are drawn up, and blunderbusses and carbines are placed in the loop-holes; there is no way of entering; it is a house by day, a citadel by night.
Eight hundred inhabitants,--such is this village.
Why such precautions?
Because the country is dangerous, and full of man-eaters.
Then, why do people go there?
Because it is a marvellous country, and gold is found there."
"What are you driving at?"
Marius, who had passed from disappointment to impatience, interrupted.
"To this, M. le Baron.
I am a worn-out ex-diplomatist.
I am sick of our old civilization, and wish to try the savages."
"What next?"
"Monsieur le Baron, egotism is the law of the world.
The proletarian peasant-wench who works by the day turns round when the diligence passes, but the peasant-woman who is laboring on her own field does not turn.
The poor man's dog barks after the rich, the rich man's dog barks after the poor; each for himself, and self-interest is the object of mankind.
Gold is the magnet."
"What next?
Conclude."
"I should like to go and settle at La Joya.
There are three of us.
I have my wife and my daughter, a very lovely girl.
The voyage is long and expensive, and I am short of funds."
"How does that concern me?"
Marius asked.
The stranger thrust his neck out of his cravat, with a gesture peculiar to the vulture, and said, with a more affable smile than before,--

"Monsieur le Baron cannot have read my letter?"
That was almost true, and the fact is that the contents of the epistle had escaped Marius; he had seen the writing rather than read the letter, and he scarce remembered it.
A new hint had just been given him, and he noticed the detail, "My wife and daughter."
He fixed a penetrating glance on the stranger,--a magistrate could not have done it better,--but he confined himself to saying,--

"Be more precise."
The stranger thrust his hands in his trousers' pockets, raised his head without straightening his backbone, but on his side scrutinizing Marius through his green spectacles.
"Very good, M. le Baron, I will be precise.
I have a secret to sell you."
"Does it concern me?"
"Slightly."
"What is it?"
Marius more and more examined the man while listening.
"I will begin gratis," the stranger said; "you will soon see that it is interesting."
"Speak."
"Monsieur le Baron, you have in your house a robber and an assassin."
Marius gave a start.
"In my house?
No," he said.
The stranger imperturbably brushed his hat with his arm, and went on.
"An assassin and a robber.
Remark, M. le Baron, that I am not speaking here of old-forgotten facts, which might be effaced by prescription before the law--by repentance before God.
I am speaking of recent facts, present facts, of facts still unknown to justice.
I continue.
This man has crept into your confidence, and almost into your family, under a false name.
I am going to tell you his real name, and tell it you for nothing."
"I am listening."
"His name is Jean Valjean."
"I know it."
"I will tell, equally for nothing, who he is."
"Speak."
"He is an ex-convict."
"I know it."
"You have known it since I had the honor of telling you."
"No, I was aware of it before."
Marius's cold tone, this double reply, "I know it," and his stubborn shortness in the conversation aroused some latent anger in the stranger, and he gave Marius a furious side-glance, which was immediately extinguished.
Rapid though it was, the glance was one of those which are recognized if they have once been seen, and it did not escape Marius.
Certain flashes can only come from certain souls; the eyeball, that cellar-door of the soul, is lit up by them, and green spectacles conceal nothing; you might as well put up a glass window to hell.
The stranger continued, smiling,--

"I will not venture to contradict M. le Baron, but in any case you will see that I am well informed.
Now, what I have to tell you is known to myself alone, and it affects the fortune of Madame la Baronne.
It is an extraordinary secret, and is for sale.
I offer it you first.
Cheap!
twenty thousand francs."
"I know that secret as I know the other," said Marius.
The personage felt the necessity of lowering his price a little.
"Monsieur le Baron, let us say ten thousand francs, and I will speak."
"I repeat to you that you have nothing to tell me.
I know what you want to say to me."
There was a fresh flash in the man's eye, as he continued,--

"Still, I must dine to-day.
It is an extraordinary secret, I tell you.
Monsieur, I am going to speak.
I am speaking.
Give me twenty francs."
Marius looked at him fixedly.
"I know your extraordinary secret, just as I knew Jean Valjean's name, and as I know yours."
"My name?"
"Yes."
"That is not difficult, M. le Baron, for I had the honor of writing it and mentioning it to you.
Thénard--"

"--dier."
"What?"
"Thénardier."
"What does this mean?"
In danger the porcupine bristles, the beetle feigns death, the old guard forms a square.
This man began laughing.
Then he flipped a grain of dust off his coat-sleeve.
Marius continued,--

"You are also the workman Jondrette, the actor Fabantou, the poet Genflot, the Spanish Don Alvares, and Madame Balizard."
"Madame who?"
"And you once kept a pot-house at Montfermeil."
"A pot-house!
Never."
"And I tell you that you are Thénardier."
"I deny it."
"And that you are a scoundrel.
Take that."
And Marius, taking a bank-note from his pocket, threw it in his face.
"Five hundred francs!
Monsieur le Baron!"
And the man, overwhelmed and bowing, clutched the note and examined it.
"Five hundred francs!"
he continued, quite dazzled.
And he stammered half aloud, "No counterfeit;" then suddenly exclaimed, "Well, be it so.
Let us be at our ease."
And with monkey-like dexterity, throwing back his hair, tearing off his spectacles, and removing the two quills to which we alluded just now, and which we have seen before in another part of this book, he took off his face as you or I take off our hat.
His eye grew bright, the forehead--uneven, gullied, scarred, hideously wrinkled at top--became clear, the nose sharp as a beak, and the ferocious and shrewd profile of the man of prey reappeared.
"Monsieur le Baron is infallible," he said in a sharp voice, from which the nasal twang had entirely disappeared; "I am Thénardier."
And he straightened his curved back.
Thénardier--for it was really he--was strangely surprised, and would have been troubled could he have been so.
He had come to bring astonishment, and it was himself who was astonished.
This humiliation was paid for with five hundred francs, and he accepted it; but he was not the less stunned.
He saw for the first time this Baron Pontmercy, and in spite of his disguise this Baron Pontmercy recognized him, and recognized him thoroughly; and not alone was this Baron acquainted with Thénardier, but he also seemed acquainted with Jean Valjean.
Who wad this almost beardless young man, so cold and so generous; who knew people's names, knew all their names, and opened his purse to them; who bullied rogues like a judge, and paid them like a dupe?
Thénardier, it will be remembered, though he had been Marius's neighbor, had never seen him, which is frequently the case in Paris.
He had formerly vaguely heard his daughter speak of a very poor young man of the name of Marius, who lived in the house, and he had written him, without knowing him, the letter we formerly read.
No approximation between this Marius and M. le Baron Pontmercy was possible in his mind.
With regard to the name of Pontmercy, we must recollect that on the battle-field of Waterloo he had heard only the last two syllables, for which he had always had the justifiable disdain which one is likely to have for what is merely thanks.
However, he had managed through his daughter Azelma, whom he put on the track of the married couple on February 16, and by his own researches, to learn a good many things, and in his dark den had succeeded in seizing more than one mysterious thread.
He had by sheer industry discovered, or at least by the inductive process had divined, who the man was whom he had met on a certain day in the Great Sewer.
From the man he had easily arrived at the name, and he knew that Madame la Baronne Pontmercy was Cosette.
But on that point he intended to be discreet.
Who Cosette was he did not know exactly himself.
He certainly got a glimpse of some bastardism, and Fantine's story had always appeared to him doubtful.
But what was the good of speaking,--to have his silence paid?
He had, or fancied he had, something better to sell than that; and according to all expectation, to go and make to Baron Pontmercy, without further proof, the revelation, "Your wife is only a bastard," would only have succeeded in attracting the husbands boot to the broadest part of his person.
In Thénardier's thoughts the conversation with Marius had not yet begun; he had been obliged to fall back, modify his strategy, leave a position, and make a change of front; but nothing essential was as yet compromised, and he had five hundred francs in his pocket.
Moreover, he had something decisive to tell, and he felt himself strong even against this Baron Pontmercy, who was so well-informed and so well-armed.
For men of Thénardier's nature every dialogue is a combat, and what was his situation in the one which was about to begin?
He did not know to whom he was speaking, but he knew of what he was speaking.
He rapidly made this mental review of his forces, and after saying, "I am Thénardier," waited.
Marius was in deep thought; he at length held Thénardier, and the man whom he had so eagerly desired to find again was before him.
He would be able at last to honor Colonel Pontmercy's recommendation.
It humiliated him that this hero owed anything to this bandit, and that the bill of exchange drawn by his father from the tomb upon him, Marius, had remained up to this day protested.
It seemed to him, too, in the complex state of his mind as regarded Thénardier, that he was bound to avenge the Colonel for the misfortune of having been saved by such a villain.
But, however this might be, he was satisfied; he was at length going to free the Colonel's shadow from this unworthy creditor, and felt as if he were releasing his fathers memory from a debtor's prison.
By the side of this duty he had another, clearing up if possible the source of Cosette's fortune.
The opportunity appeared to present itself, for Thénardier probably knew something, and it might be useful to see to the bottom of this man; so he began with that.
Thénardier put away the "no counterfeit" carefully in his pocket, and looked at Marius with almost tender gentleness.
Marius was the first to break the silence.
"Thénardier, I have told you your name, and now do you wish me to tell you the secret which you have come to impart to me?
I have my information also, and you shall see that I know more than you do.
Jean Valjean, as you said, is an assassin and a robber.
A robber, because he plundered a rich manufacturer, M. Madeleine, whose ruin he caused: an assassin, because he murdered Inspector Javert."
"I do not understand you, M. le Baron," said Thénardier.
"I will make you understand; listen.
There was in the Pas de Calais district, about the year 1822, a man who had been in some trouble with the authorities, and who had rehabilitated and restored himself under the name of Monsieur Madeleine.
This man had become, in the fullest extent of the term, a just man, and he made the fortune of an entire town by a trade, the manufacture of black beads.
As for his private fortune, he had made that too, but secondarily, and to some extent as occasion offered.
He was the foster-father of the poor, he founded hospitals, opened schools, visited the sick, dowered girls, supported widows, adopted orphans, and was, as it were, guardian of the town.
He had refused the cross, and was appointed mayor.
A liberated convict knew the secret of a penalty formerly incurred by this man; he denounced and had him arrested, and took advantage of the arrest to come to Paris and draw out of Laffitte's--I have the facts from the cashier himself--by means of a false signature, a sum of half a million and more, which belonged to M. Madeleine.
The convict who robbed M. Madeleine was Jean Valjean; as for the other fact, you can tell me no more than I know either.
Jean Valjean killed Inspector Javert with a pistol-shot, and I, who am speaking to you, was present."
Thénardier gave Marius the sovereign glance of a beaten man who sets his hand again on the victory, and has regained in a minute all the ground he had lost.
But the smile at once returned, for the inferior, when in presence of his superior, must keep his triumph to himself, and Thénardier confined himself to saying to Marius,--

"Monsieur le Baron, we are on the wrong track."
And he underlined this sentence by giving his bunch of seals an expressive twirl.
"What!"
Marius replied, "do you dispute it?
They are facts."
"They are chimeras.
The confidence with which Monsieur le Baron honors me makes it my duty to tell him so.
Before all, truth and justice, and I do not like to see people accused wrongfully.
Monsieur le Baron, Jean Valjean did not rob M. Madeleine, and Jean Valjean did not kill Javert."
"That is rather strong.
Why not?"
"For two reasons."
"What are they?
Speak."
"The first is this: he did not rob M. Madeleine, because Jean Valjean himself is M.
Madeleine."
"What nonsense are you talking?"
"And this is the second: he did not assassinate Javert, because the man who killed Javert was Javert."
"What do you mean?"
"That Javert committed suicide."
"Prove it, prove it!"
Marius cried wildly.
Thénardier repeated slowly, scanning his sentence after the fashion of an ancient Alexandrian,--

"Police-Agent-Javert-was-found-drowned-un-der-a boat-at-Pont-au-Change."
"But prove it, then."
Thénardier drew from his side-pocket a large gray paper parcel which seemed to contain folded papers of various sizes.
"I have my proofs," he said calmly, and he added: "Monsieur le Baron, I wished to know Jean Valjean thoroughly on your behalf.
I say that Jean Valjean and Madeleine are the same, and I say that Javert had no other assassin but Javert; and when I say this, I have the proofs, not manuscript proofs, for writing is suspicious and complaisant, but printed proofs."
While speaking, Thénardier extracted from the parcel two newspapers, yellow, faded, and tremendously saturated with tobacco.
One of these two papers, broken in all the folds, and falling in square rags, seemed much older than the other.
"Two facts, two proofs," said Thénardier, as he handed Marius the two open newspapers.
These two papers the reader knows; one, the older, a number of the _Drapeau Blanc_, for July 25, 1823, of which the exact text was given in the second volume of this work, established the identity of M. Madeleine and Jean Valjean.
The other, a _Moniteur_, of June 15, 1832, announced the suicide of Javert, adding that it was found, from a verbal report made by Javert to the Préfet, that he had been made prisoner at the barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, and owed his life to the magnanimity of an insurgent, who, when holding him under his pistol, instead of blowing out his brains, fired in the air.
Marius read; there was evidence, a certain date, irrefragable proof, for these two papers had not been printed expressly to support Thénardier's statement, and the note published in the _Moniteur_ was officially communicated by the Préfecture of Police.
Marius could no longer doubt; the cashier's information was false, and he was himself mistaken.
Jean Valjean, suddenly growing great, issued from the cloud, and Marius could not restrain a cry of joy.
"What, then, this poor fellow is an admirable man!
All this fortune is really his!
He is Madeleine, the providence of an entire town!
He is Jean Valjean, the savior of Javert!
He is a hero!
He is a saint!"
"He is not a saint, and he is not a hero," said Thénadier; "he is an assassin and a robber."
And he added with the accent of a man beginning to feel himself possessed of some authority, "Let us calm ourselves."
Robber, assassin,--those words which Marius believed had disappeared, and which had returned, fell upon him like a cold shower-bath.
"Still--" he said.
"Still," said Thénardier, "Jean Valjean did not rob M. Madeleine, but he is a robber; he did not assassinate Javert, but he is an assassin."
"Are you alluding," Marius continued, "to that wretched theft committed forty years back, and expiated, as is proved from those very papers, by a whole life of repentance, self-denial, and virtue?"
"I say assassination and robbery, M. le Baron, and repeat that I am alluding to recent facts.
What I have to reveal to you is perfectly unknown and unpublished, and you may perhaps find in it the source of the fortune cleverly offered by Jean Valjean to Madame la Baronne.
I say cleverly, for it would not be a stupid act, by a donation of that nature, to step into an honorable house, whose comforts he would share, and at the same time hide the crime, enjoy his robbery, bury his name, and create a family."
"I could interrupt you here," Marius observed, "but go on."
"Monsieur le Baron, I will tell you all, leaving the reward to your generosity, for the secret is worth its weight in gold.
You will say to me, 'Why not apply to Jean Valjean?'
For a very simple reason.
I know that he has given up all his property in your favor, and I consider the combination ingenious; but he has not a halfpenny left; he would show me his empty hands, and as I want money for my voyage to La Joya, I prefer you, who have everything, to him, who has nothing.
As I am rather fatigued, permit me to take a chair."
Marius sat down, and made him a sign to do the same.
Thénardier installed himself in an easy-chair, took up the newspapers, put them back in the parcel, and muttered as he dug his nail into the _Drapeau Blanc_, "It cost me a deal of trouble to procure this."
This done, he crossed his legs, threw himself in the chair in the attitude of men who are certain of what they are stating, and then began his narrative gravely, and laying a stress on his words:--

"Monsieur le Baron, on June 6, 1832, about a year ago, and on the day of the riots, a man was in the Great Sewer of Paris, at the point where the sewer falls into the Seine between the Pont des Invalides and the Pont de Jéna."
Marius hurriedly drew his chair closer to Thénardier's.
Thénardier noticed this movement, and continued with the slowness of an orator who holds his hearer, and feels his adversary quivering under his words:--

"This man, forced to hide himself, for reasons, however, unconnected with politics, had selected the sewer as his domicile, and had the key of it.
It was, I repeat, June 6, and about eight in the evening the man heard a noise in the sewer; feeling greatly surprised, he concealed himself and watched.
It was a sound of footsteps; some one was walking in the darkness, and coming in his direction; strange to say, there was another man beside himself in the sewer.
As the outlet of the sewer was no great distance off, a little light which passed through enabled him to see the new-comer, and that he was carrying something on his back.
He walked in a stooping posture; he was an ex-convict, and what he had on his shoulders was a corpse.
A flagrant case of assassination, if there ever was one; as for the robbery, that is a matter of course, for no one kills a man gratis.
This convict was going to throw the body into the river, and a fact worth notice is, that, before reaching the outlet, the convict, who had come a long way through the sewer, was obliged to pass a frightful hole, in which it seems as if he might have left the corpse; but the sewer-men who came to effect the repairs next day would have found the murdered man there, and that did not suit the assassin.
Hence he preferred carrying the corpse across the slough, and his efforts must have been frightful; it was impossible to risk one's life more perfectly, and I do not understand how he got out of it alive."
Marius's chair came nearer, and Thénardier took advantage of it to draw a long breath; then he continued:---

"Monsieur le Baron, a sewer is not the Champ de Mars; everything is wanting there, even space, and when two men are in it together they must meet.
This happened, and the domiciled man and the passer-by were compelled to bid each other good-evening, to their mutual regret.
The passer-by said to the domiciled man, 'You see what I have on my back.
I must go out; you have the key, so give it to me.'
This convict was a man of terrible strength, and there was no chance of refusing him; still, the man who held the key parleyed, solely to gain time.
He examined the dead man, but could see nothing, except that he was young, well dressed, had a rich look, and was quite disfigured with blood.
While talking, he managed to tear off, without the murderer perceiving it, a piece of the skirt of the victim's coat, as a convincing proof, you understand, a means of getting on the track of the affair, and bringing the crime home to the criminal.
He placed the piece of cloth in his pocket; after which he opened the grating, allowed the man with the load on his back to go out, locked the grating again, and ran away, not feeling at all desirous to be mixed up any further in the adventure, or to be present when the assassin threw the corpse into the river.
You now understand: the man who carried the corpse was Jean Valjean; the one who had the key is speaking to you at this moment, and the piece of coat-skirt--"

Thénardier completed the sentence by drawing from his pocket and holding level with his eyes a ragged piece of black cloth all covered with dark spots.
Marius had risen, pale, scarce breathing, with his eye fixed on the black patch, and, without uttering a syllable, or without taking his eyes off the rag, he fell back, and, with his right hand extended behind him, felt for the key of a wall-cupboard near the mantel-piece.
He found this key, opened the cupboard, and thrust in his hand without looking or once taking his eyes off the rag which Thénardier displayed.
In the mean while Thénardier continued,--

"Monsieur le Baron, I have the strongest grounds for believing that the assassinated young man was a wealthy foreigner, drawn by Jean Valjean into a trap, and carrying an enormous sum about him."
"I was the young man, and here is the coat!"
cried Marius, as he threw on the floor an old black coat all covered with blood.
Then, taking the patch from Thénardier's hands, he bent over the coat and put it in its place in the skirt; the rent fitted exactly, and the fragment completed the coat Thénardier was petrified, and thought, "I'm sold."
Marius drew himself up, shuddering, desperate, and radiant; he felt in his pocket, and walking furiously towards Thénardier, thrusting almost into his face his hand full of five hundred and thousand franc notes,--

"You are an infamous wretch!
You are a liar, a calumniator, and a villain!
You came to accuse that man, and you have justified him; you came to ruin him, and have only succeeded in glorifying him.
And it is you who are the robber!
It is you who are an assassin!
I saw you, Thénardier--Jondrette, at that den on the Boulevard de l'Hôpital.
I know enough about you to send you to the galleys, and even farther if I liked.
There are a thousand francs, ruffian that you are!"
And he threw a thousand-franc note at Thénardier.
"Ah!
Jondrette--Thénardier, vile scoundrel, let this serve you as a lesson, you hawker of secrets, you dealer in mysteries, you searcher in the darkness, you villain, take these five hundred francs, and be off.
Waterloo protects you."
"Waterloo!"
Thénardier growled, as he pocketed the five hundred francs.
"Yes, assassin!
You saved there the life of a colonel."
"A general!"
Thénardier said, raising his head.
"A colonel!"
Marius repeated furiously.
"I would not give a farthing for a general.
And you come here to commit an infamy!
I tell you that you have committed every crime!
Begone!
Disappear!
Be happy, that is all I desire.
Ah, monster!
Here are three thousand francs more: take them.
You will start to-morrow for America with your daughter, for your wife is dead, you abominable liar!
I will watch over your departure, bandit, and at the moment when you set sail, pay you twenty thousand francs.
Go and get hanged elsewhere."
"Monsieur le Baron," Thénardier answered, bowing to the ground, "accept my eternal gratitude."
And Thénardier left the room, understanding nothing of all this, but stupefied and ravished by this sweet crushing under bags of gold, and this lightning flashing over his head in the shape of bank-notes.
Let us finish at once with this man: two days after the events we have just recorded he started for America, under a false name, with his daughter Azelma, and provided with an order on a New York banker for twenty thousand francs.
The moral destitution of Thénardier, the spoiled bourgeois, was irremediable, and he was in America what he had been in Europe.
The contact with a wicked man is sometimes sufficient to rot a good action, and to make something bad issue from it: with Marius's money Thénardier turned slave dealer.
So soon as Thénardier had departed, Marius ran into the garden where Cosette was still walking.
"Cosette, Cosette!"
he cried, "come, come quickly, let us be off!
Basque, a hackney coach!
Cosette, come!
Oh, heavens!
It was he who saved my life!
Let us not lose a minute!
Put on your shawl."
Cosette thought him mad, and obeyed.
He could not breathe, and laid his hand on his heart to check its beating.
He walked up and down with long strides, and embraced Cosette.
"Oh, Cosette!"
he said, "I am a wretch."
Marius was amazed, for he was beginning to catch a glimpse of some strange, lofty, and sombre figure in this Jean Valjean.
An extraordinary virtue appeared to him, supreme and gentle, and humble in its immensity, and the convict was transfigured into Christ.
Marius was dazzled by this prodigy, and though he knew not exactly what he saw, it was grand.
In an instant the hackney coach was at the gate.
Marius helped Cosette in, and followed her.
"Driver," he cried, "No.
7, Rue de l'Homme Armé."
"Oh, how glad I am!"
said Cosette.
"Rue de l'Homme Armé; I did not dare speak to you about Monsieur Jean, but we are going to see him."
"Your father, Cosette!
your father more than ever.
Cosette, I see it all.
You told me that you never received the letter I sent you by Gavroche.
It must have fallen into his hands, Cosette, and he came to the barricade to save me.
As it is his sole duty to be an angel, in passing he saved others: he saved Javert.
He drew me out of that gulf to give me to you; he carried me on his back through that frightful sewer.
Ah!
I am a monstrous ingrate!
Cosette, after having been your providence, he was mine.
Just imagine that there was a horrible pit, in which a man could be drowned a hundred times, drowned in mud, Cosette; and he carried me through it.
I had feinted; I saw nothing, I heard nothing, I could not know anything about my own adventures.
We are going to bring him back with us, and whether he is willing or not he shall never leave us again.
I only hope he is at home!
I only hope we shall find him!
I will spend the rest of my life in revering him.
Yes, it must have been so, Cosette, and Gavroche must have given him my letter.
That explains everything.
You understand."
Cosette did not understand a word.
"You are right," she said to him.
In the mean while the hackney coach rolled along.
CHAPTER V.

A NIGHT BEHIND WHICH IS DAY.
At the knock he heard at his door Jean Valjean turned round.
"Come in," he said feebly.
The door opened, and Cosette and Marius appeared.
Cosette rushed into the room.
Marius remained on the threshold, leaning against the doorpost.
"Cosette!"
said Jean Valjean, and he sat up in his chair, with his arms outstretched and opened, haggard, livid, and sinister, but with an immense joy in his eyes.
Cosette, suffocated with emotion, fell on Jean Valjean's breast.
"Father!"
she said.
Jean Valjean, utterly overcome, stammered, "Cosette!
She--you--Madame!
It is thou!
Oh, my God!"
And clasped in Cosette's arms, he exclaimed,--

"It is you!
You are here; you forgive me, then!"
Marius, drooping his eyelids to keep his tears from flowing, advanced a step, and muttered between his lips, which were convulsively clenched to stop his sobs,--

"Father!"
"And you too, you forgive me!"
said Jean Valjean.
Marius could not find a word to say, and Jean Valjean added, "Thank you."
Cosette took off her shawl, and threw her bonnet on the bed.
"It is in my way," she said.
And sitting down on the old man's knees, she parted his gray hair with an adorable movement, and kissed his forehead.
Jean Valjean, who was wandering, let her do so.
Cosette, who only comprehended very vaguely, redoubled her caresses, as if she wished to pay Marius's debt, and Jean Valjean stammered,--

"How foolish a man can be!
I fancied that I should not see her again.
Just imagine, Monsieur Pontmercy, that at the very moment when you came in I was saying, 'It is all over.'
There is her little dress.
'I am a wretched man, I shall not see Cosette again,' I was saying at the very moment when you were coming up the stairs.
What an idiot I was!
A man can be as idiotic as that!
But people count without the good God, who says, 'You imagine that you are going to be abandoned; no, things will not happen like that.
Down below there is a poor old fellow who has need of an angel.'
And the angel comes, and he sees Cosette again, and he sees his little Cosette again.
Oh, I was very unhappy!"
For a moment he was unable to speak; then he went on,--

"I really wanted to see Cosette for a little while every now and then, for a heart requires a bone to gnaw.
Still, I knew well that I was in the way.
I said to myself, 'They do not want you, so stop in your corner; a man has no right to pay everlasting visits,' Ah, blessed be God!
I see her again.
Do you know, Cosette, that your husband is very handsome?
What a pretty embroidered collar you are wearing; I like that pattern.
Your husband chose it, did he not?
And then, you will need cashmere shawls.
Monsieur Pontmercy, let me call her Cosette, it will not be for long."
And Cosette replied,--

"How unkind to have left us like that!
Where have you been to?
Why were you away so long?
Formerly your absences did not last over three or four days.
I sent Nicolette, and the answer always was, 'He has not returned.'
When did you get back?
Why did you not let us know?
Are you aware that you are greatly changed?
Oh, naughty papa, he has been ill, and we did not know it.
Here, Marius, feel how cold his hand is!"
"So you are here!
So you forgive me, Monsieur Pontmercy?"
Jean Valjean repeated.
At this remark, all that was swelling in Marius's heart found a vent, and he burst forth,--

"Do you hear, Cosette?
He asks my pardon.
And do you know what he did for me, Cosette?
He saved my life; he did more, he gave you to me, and, after saving me, and after giving you to me, Cosette, what did he do for himself?
He sacrificed himself.
That is the man.
And to me, who am so ungrateful, so pitiless, so forgetful, and so guilty, he says, 'Thank you!'
Cosette, my whole life spent at this man's feet would be too little.
That barricade, that sewer, that furnace, that pit,--he went through them all for me and for you, Cosette!
He carried me through every form of death, which he held at bay from me and accepted for himself.
This man possesses every courage, every virtue, every heroism, and every holiness, and he is an angel, Cosette!"
"Stop, stop!"
Jean Valjean said in a whisper; "why talk in that way?"
"But why did you not tell me of it?"
exclaimed Marius, with a passion in which was veneration; "it is your fault also.
You save people's lives, and conceal the fact from them!
You do more; under the pretext of unmasking yourself, you calumniate yourself.
It is frightful!"
"I told the truth," Jean Valjean replied.
"No!"
Marius retorted, "the truth is the whole truth, and you did not tell that.
You were Monsieur Madeleine; why not tell me so?
You saved Javert; why not tell me so?
I owed you my life; why not tell me so?"
"Because I thought like you, and found that you were right.
It was necessary that I should leave you.
Had you known of the sewer, you would have compelled me to remain with you, and hence I held my tongue.
Had I spoken, I should have been in the way."
"Been in the way of whom,--of what?"
Marius broke out.
"Do you fancy that you are going to remain here?
We mean to take you back with us.
Oh, good heaven!
when I think that I only learned all this by accident!
We shall take you away with us, for you form a part of ourselves.
You are her father and mine.
You shall not spend another day in this frightful house, so do not fancy you will be here to-morrow."
"To-morrow," said Jean Valjean, "I shall be no longer here; but I shall not be at your house."
"What do you mean?"
Marius asked.
"Oh, no!
we shall not let you travel any more.
You shall not leave us again, for you belong to us, and we will not let you go."
"This time it is for good," Cosette added.
"We have a carriage below, and I mean to carry you off; if necessary, I shall employ force."
And laughing, she feigned to raise the old man in her arms.
"Your room is still all ready in our house," she went on.
"If you only knew how pretty the garden is just at present!
The azaleas are getting on splendidly; the walks are covered with river sand, and there are little violet shells.
You shall eat my strawberries, for it is I who water them.
And no more Madame and no more Monsieur Jean, for we live in a republic, do we not, Marius?
The programme is changed.
If you only knew, father, what a sorrow I had; a redbreast had made its nest in a hole in the wall, and a horrible cat killed it for me.
My poor, pretty little redbreast, that used to thrust its head out of its window and look at me!
I cried at it, and could have killed the cat!
But now, nobody weeps, everybody laughs, everybody is happy.
You will come with us; how pleased grandfather will be!
You will have your bed in the garden, you will cultivate it, and we will see whether your strawberries are as fine as mine.
And then, I will do all you wish, and you will obey me."
Jean Valjean listened without hearing; he heard the music of her voice rather than the meaning of her words, and one of those heavy tears, which are the black pearls of the soul, slowly collected in his eye.
He murmured,--

"The proof that God is good is that she is here."
"My father!"
said Cosette.
Jean Valjean continued,--

"It is true it would be charming to live together.
They have their trees full of birds, and I should walk about with Cosette.
It is sweet to be with persons who live, who say to each other good-morning, and call each other in the garden.
We should each cultivate a little bed; she would give me her strawberries to eat, and I would let her pick my roses.
It would be delicious, but--"

He broke off, and said gently, "It is a pity!"
The tear did not fall, it was recalled, and Jean Valjean substituted a smile for it.
Cosette took both the old man's hands in hers.
"Good Heaven!"
she said, "your hands have grown colder.
Can you be ill?
Are you suffering?"
"I--no," Jean Valjean replied, "I am quite well.
It is only--" He stopped.
"Only what?"
"I am going to die directly."
Marius and Cosette shuddered.
"Die!"
Marius exclaimed.
"Yes; but that is nothing," said Jean Valjean.
He breathed, smiled, and added,--

"Cosette, you were talking to me; go on, speak again.
Your redbreast is dead, then?
Speak, that I may hear your voice."
Marius, who was petrified, looked at the old man, and Cosette uttered a piercing shriek.
"Father, father, you will live!
You are going to live.
I insist on your living, do you hear?"
Jean Valjean raised his head to her with adoration.
"Oh, yes, forbid me dying.
Who knows?
Perhaps I shall obey.
I was on the road to death when you arrived, but that stopped me.
I fancied I was coming to life again."
"You are full of strength and life," Marius exclaimed; "can you suppose that a man dies like that?
You have known grief, but you shall know no more.
It is I who ask pardon of you, and on my knees!
You are going to live, and live with us, and live a long time.
We will take you with us, and shall have henceforth but one thought, your happiness!"
"You hear," said Cosette, who was all in tears.
"Marius says that you will not die."
Jean Valjean continued to smile.
"Even if you were to take me home with you, Monsieur Pontmercy, would that prevent me being what I am?
No.
God has thought the same as you and I, and he does not alter his opinion.
It is better for me to be gone.
Death is an excellent arrangement, and God knows better than we do what we want.
I am certain that it is right, that you should be happy, that Monsieur Pontmercy should have Cosette, that youth should espouse the dawn, that there should be around you, my children, lilacs and nightingales, that your life should be a lawn bathed in sunlight, that all the enchantments of Heaven should fill your souls, and that I who am good for nothing should now die.
Come, be reasonable; nothing is possible now, and I fully feel that all is over.
An hour ago I had a fainting-fit, and last night I drank the whole of that jug of water.
How kind your husband is, Cosette!
You are much better with him than with me!"
There was a noise at the door; it was the physician come to pay his visit.
"Good-day, and good-by, doctor," said Jean Valjean; "here are my poor children."
Marius went up to the physician, and addressed but one word to him, "Sir?"
--but in the manner of pronouncing it there was a whole question.
The physician answered the question by an expressive glance.
"Because things are unpleasant," said Jean Valjean, "that is no reason to be unjust to God."
There was a silence, and every breast was oppressed.
Jean Valjean turned to Cosette, and began contemplating her, as if he wished to take the glance with him into eternity.
In the deep shadow into which he had already sunk ecstasy was still possible for him in gazing at Cosette.
The reflection of her sweet countenance illumined his pale face, for the sepulchre may have its brilliancy.
The physician felt his pulse.
"Ah, it was you that he wanted," he said, looking at Marius and Cosette.
And bending down to Marius's ear, he whispered, "Too late!"
Jean Valjean, almost without ceasing to regard Cosette, looked at Marius and the physician with serenity, and the scarcely articulated words could be heard passing his lips.
"It is nothing to die, but it is frightful not to live."
All at once he rose; such return of strength is at times a sequel of the death-agony.
He walked with a firm step to the wall, thrust aside Marius and the doctor, who wished to help him, detached from the wall the small copper crucifix hanging on it, returned to his seat with all the vigor of full health, and said, as he laid the crucifix on the table,--

"There is the great Martyr."
Then his chest sank in, his head vacillated, as if the intoxication of the tomb were seizing on him, and his hands, lying on his knees, began pulling at the cloth of his trousers.
Cosette supported his shoulders, and sobbed, and tried to speak to him, but was unable to do so.
Through the words mingled with that lugubrious saliva which accompanies tears, such sentences as this could be distinguished: "Father, do not leave us.
Is it possible that we have only found you again to lose you?"
It might be said that the death-agony moves like a serpent; it comes, goes, advances toward the grave, and then turns back toward life; there is groping in the action of death.
Jean Valjean, after this partial syncope, rallied, shook his forehead as if to make the darkness fall off it, and became again almost lucid.
He caught hold of Cosette's sleeve and kissed it.
"He is recovering, doctor, he is recovering," Marius cried.
"You are both good," said Jean Valjean, "and I am going to tell you what causes me sorrow.
It causes me sorrow, Monsieur Pontmercy, that you have refused to touch that money; but it is really your wife's.
I will explain to you, my children, and that is why I am so glad to see you.
Black jet comes from England, and white jet from Norway; it is all in that paper there, which you will read.
I invented the substitution of rolled-up snaps for welded snaps in bracelets; they are prettier, better, and not so dear.
You can understand what money can be earned by it; so Cosette's fortune is really hers.
I give you these details that your mind may be at rest!"
The porter's wife had come up, and was peeping through the open door; the physician sent her off, but could not prevent the zealous old woman shouting to the dying man before she went,--

"Will you have a priest?"
"I have one," Jean Valjean answered.
And he seemed to point with his finger to a spot over his head, where it seemed as if he saw some one; it is probable, in truth, that the Bishop was present at this death-scene.
Cosette gently placed a pillow behind Jean Valjean's loins, and he continued,--

"Monsieur Pontmercy, have no fears, I conjure you.
The six hundred thousand francs are really Cosette's!
I should have thrown away my life if you did not enjoy them!
We had succeeded in making those beads famously, and we competed with what is called Berlin jewelry.
For instance, the black beads of Germany cannot be equalled; for a gross, which contains twelve hundred well-cut beads, only costs three francs."
*       *       *       *       *

When a being who is dear to us is about to die, we regard him with a gaze which grapples him, and would like to retain him.
Cosette and Marius stood before him hand in hand, dumb through agony, not knowing what to say to death, despairing and trembling.
With each moment Jean Valjean declined and approached nearer to the dark horizon.
His breathing had become intermittent, and a slight rattle impeded it.
He had a difficulty in moving his fore-arm, his feet had lost all movement, and at the same time, as the helplessness of the limbs and the exhaustion of the body increased, all the majesty of the soul ascended and was displayed on his forehead.
The light of the unknown world was already visible in his eyeballs.
His face grew livid and at the same time smiling; life was no longer there, but there was something else.
His breath stopped, but his glance expanded; he was a corpse on whom wings could be seen.
He made Cosette a sign to approach, and then Marius; it was evidently the last minute of the last hour, and he began speaking to them in so faint a voice that it seemed to come from a distance, and it was as if there were a wall between them and him.
"Come hither, both of you; I love you dearly.
Oh, how pleasant it is to die like this!
You too love me, my Cosette; I felt certain that you had always a fondness for the poor old man.
How kind it was of you to place that pillow under my loins!
You will weep for me a little, will you not?
But not too much, for I do not wish you to feel real sorrow.
You must amuse yourselves a great deal, my children.
I forgot to tell you that more profit was made on the buckles without tongues than on all the rest; the gross cost two francs to produce, and sold for sixty.
It was really a good trade, so you must not feel surprised at the six hundred thousand francs, Monsieur Pontmercy.
It is honest money.
You can be rich without any fear.
You must have a carriage, now and then a box at the opera, handsome ball-dresses, my Cosette, and give good dinners to your friends, and be very happy.
I was writing just now to Cosette.
She will find my letter.
To her I leave the two candlesticks on the mantel-piece.
They are silver, but to me they are made of gold, of diamonds; they change the candles placed in them into consecrated tapers.
I know not whether the man who gave them to me is satisfied with me above, but I have done what I could.
My children, you will not forget that I am a poor man, you will have me buried in some corner with a stone to mark the spot.
That is my wish.
No name on the stone.
If Cosette comes to see it now and then, it will cause me pleasure.
And you, too, Monsieur Pontmercy.
I must confess to you that I did not always like you, and I ask your forgiveness.
Now, she and you are only one for me.
I am very grateful to you, for I feel that you render Cosette happy.
If you only knew, Monsieur Pontmercy; her pretty pink cheeks were my joy, and when I saw her at all pale, I was miserable.
There is in the chest of drawers a five-hundred-franc note.
I have not touched it; it is for the poor, Cosette.
Do you see your little dress there on the bed?
Do you recognize it?
And yet it was only ten years ago!
How time passes!
We have been very happy, and it is all over.
Do not weep, my children; I am not going very far, and I shall see you from there.
You will only have to look when it is dark, and you will see me smile.
Cosette, do you remember Montfermeil?
You were in the wood and very frightened: do you remember when I took the bucket-handle?
It was the first time I touched your pretty little hand.
It was so cold.
Ah, you had red hands in those days, Miss, but now they are very white.
And the large doll?
Do you remember?
You christened it Catherine, and were sorry that you did not take it with you to the convent.
How many times you have made me laugh, my sweet angel!
When it had rained, you used to set straws floating in the gutter, and watched them go.
One day I gave you a wicker battledore and a shuttlecock with yellow, blue, and green feathers.
You have forgotten it.
You were so merry when a little girl.
You used to play.
You would put cherries in your ears.
All these are things of the past.
The forests through which one has passed with one's child, the trees under which we have walked, the convent in which we hid, the sports, the hearty laughter of childhood, are shadows.
I imagined that all this belonged to me, and that was my stupidity.
Those Thénardiers were very wicked, but we must forgive them.
Cosette, the moment has arrived to tell you your mother's name.
It was Fantine.
Remember this name,--Fantine.
Fall on your knees every time that you pronounce it.
She suffered terribly.
She loved you dearly.
She knew as much misery as you have known happiness.
Such are the distributions of God.
He is above.
He sees us all, and he knows all that he does, amid his great stars.
I am going away, my children.
Love each other dearly and always.
There is no other thing in the world but that: love one another.
You will sometimes think of the poor old man who died here.
Ah, my Cosette, it is not my fault that I did not see you every day, for it broke my heart.
I went as far as the corner of the street, and must have produced a funny effect on the people who saw me pass, for I was like a madman, and even went out without my hat.
My children, I can no longer see very clearly.
I had several things to say to you, but no matter.
Think of me a little.
You are blessed beings.
I know not what is the matter with me, but I see light.
Come hither.
I die happy.
Let me lay my hands on your beloved heads."
Cosette and Marius fell on their knees, heartbroken and choked with sobs, each under one of Jean Valjean's hands.
These august hands did not move again.
He had fallen back, and the light from the two candles illumined him: his white face looked up to heaven, and he let Cosette and Marius cover his hands with kisses.
He was dead.
The night was starless and intensely dark; doubtless some immense angel was standing in the gloom, with outstretched wings, waiting for the soul.
CHAPTER VI.
THE GRASS HIDES, AND THE RAIN EFFACES.
There is at the cemetery of Père-Lachaise, in the vicinity of the poor side, far from the elegant quarter of this city of sepulchres, far from those fantastic tombs which display in the presence of eternity the hideous fashions of death, in a deserted corner near an old wall, under a yew up which bind-weed climbs, and amid couch-grass and moss, a tombstone.
This stone is no more exempt than the others from the results of time, from mildew, lichen, and the deposits of birds.
Water turns it green and the atmosphere blackens it.
It is not in the vicinity of any path, and people do not care to visit that part because the grass is tall and they get their feet wet.
When there is a little sunshine the lizards disport on it; there is all around a rustling of wild oats, and in spring linnets sing on the trees.
This tombstone is quite bare.
In cutting it, only the necessities of the tomb were taken into consideration; no further care was taken than to make the stone long enough and narrow enough to cover a man.
No name can be read on it.
Many, many years ago, however, a hand wrote on it in pencil these lines, which became almost illegible through rain and dust, and which are probably effaced at the present day:--

"Il dort.
Quoique le sort fût pour lui bien étrange,     Il vivait.
Il mourut quand il n'eut pas son ange;     La chose simplement d'elle-même arriva,     Comme la nuit se fait lorsque le jour s'en va."