CHAPTER I.

JOHN HENRY GETS A PARTNER. "Seven weeks and then the wedding bells will get busy
for you, eh, Bunch?" I chuckled. "Surest thing you know," my old pal Jefferson
replied, somewhat dolefully. "I must dig up a few old shoes and have a plate of
cold rice pudding on the doorstep," I went on. "It's going to afford me a bunch
of keen delight to soak you in the midriff with a rusty patent leather and then
push a few rice fritters in under your coat collar, believe me!" Bunch tried to
pull a smile, but his face didn't feel like working, and the finish was a
mournful sigh. "John," he said, after the waiter had crowded the sizz-water into
the wood alcohol, "I'm a plain case of shrimp!" "Oh, sush!" I said; "you'll get
over that, Bunch. Isn't it a hit how we young fellows begin to warm wise to
ourselves the moment we get a flash of the orange blossoms. We think of the
beautiful little lady we are leading to the altar and then we think of the many
beautiful souses we have led by the hand, and we begin to ask ourselves if we
are worthy. Before we can get the right answer the preacher has dropped the
flag, the ceremonies are over, and after that the struggle to supply three
squares a day puts the boots to every other worry; am I right, Gonsalvo?" "I
s'pose so, John," Bunch replied, "but it isn't a case of rattles with me. I'm
shy with the mazume, and it looks now as if that little trip to the minister's
will have to be postponed indefinitely." "Skidoo, skidoo, and quit me, Mr.
Josheimer!" I suggested. "I mean it, John," Bunch came back. "I can't lead a
girl like Alice Grey into the roped arena of matrimony when I haven't the price
of an omelette for the wedding breakfast, now can I?" "Great Scott, Bunch, have
you been Chadwicked for your roll ?" I asked. "Are you the man from Ohio that
was so polite he gave his bank to the lady? If you are, it serves you right."
"No, John," Bunch answered mournfully, "but I had to go to Washington on a
business trip, and while there----"

"Wait, Bunch," I chipped in; "I've got you sized. While in Washington you met a
couple of wise voices who talked nothing but sure-things, so you for the
Bennings race track to spill your coin, eh, Beau?" "Well, John, I'll tell you
how it was," Bunch tried to square himself. "My roll was just five thousand
strong, and I began to wish for about two thousand more, so that I could take
the little wife over the wild waves and point out Paris and the Riviera to her.
In Washington I met a quick talker named Ike Gibson and he played me for a good,
steady listener. Ike showered me with cinches and in short order I was down with
Bennings fever. And then----"

"I know the answer, Bunch," I sighed, "You followed Ike's clues and finished
fainting. I'm wise. But, say! Bunch, didn't you pipe me with the neck bruises
often enough in the old days to profit by my experience? Didn't I go up against
that horse game so hard that I shook the whole community, and aren't you on to
the fact that the only sure thing about a race track is a seat on a trolley car
going in the opposite direction?" "I know, John," Bunch replied, "but this
looked awfully good to me, and I went after it." "Did they sting you for the
whole bundle?" I asked. "Not quite," Bunch answered sadly; "but they certainly
put a crimp in my wallet. I'm only $1,500 strong now, and that's not enough to
tip the porter on the honeymoon journey. You know, John, I'm only drawing $100 a
week from the brokerage business, and I'll get nervous if I can't make up a
purse quicker than that. I'll simply have to go to Alice and Uncle William Grey
and get a set-back, and--say, John! I'm a polish, for fair! Alice is making all
her preparations, and has her mind fastened to the date, and all that sort of
thing, and like a chump I go up against that----"

"Oh, get back from the funeral, get back, Bunch!" I advised. "How often have I
told you not to cut a beef about the has-happened? You went to Bennings, got
dizzy, did a couple of Arabs and lose the price of a wedding trip--that's all.
Now we must get that money back before the minister steps up to start the
fight." "How can I win out $3,500 in seven weeks, I'd like to know!" Bunch
moaned. "A cincherine," I came back. "I've got a scheme cooking that will put
you and me all to the splendid in short order." "Yes, but these schemes of yours
sometimes get nervous prostration," Bunch began to fret. "Sush, now!" I said;
"this is the real goods. It can't go wrong. It's just like getting money from
Carnegie. I've discovered a genius." "A genius!" Bunch repeated; "what kind of a
genius?" "His name is Signor Beppo Petroskinski, an Illusionist," I answered.
"And he's aces." "What does he do?" asked Bunch; "spar eight rounds with the
piano or sell Persian rugs?" "Nix on the hurry talk, Bunch," I said.
"Petroskinski is a discovery of mine, and he's all to the mustard. He's an
Illusionist, and he can pull off some of the best tricks I ever blinked at. Say,
he has Hermann and Keller and all those guys backed up in a corner yelling for
help. Skinski is our mint, and we're going to take him out over the one-night
stands and drag a fortune away from Mr. and Mrs. Reub." "You mean you're going
to finance a tour for this unknown magician and expect to win out? Say, John,
don't let my troubles affect your brain; I'll be good and stop crying!" "I mean,
Bunch, that Skinski is the wonder of the age, and all we have to do is to show
him to the public and they'll be handing us their jewelry. You know, Bunch, I'm
a few chips shy myself on account of a side play which my wife knows nothing
about. I promised her to make a first payment of $5,000 on that new home we're
going to buy on the first of the year, and I fell down and broke my promise. I
thought I could drag the homestead money away from the Street, so I took a few
slices of Amalgamated Copper and burned my thumb. Old Colonel Frenzied Finance
didn't do a thing to me. When I yelled for help my pocketbook looked like a last
season's autumn leaf in the family Bible. Peaches isn't wise that I've lost my
roll, so it's up to me to make good before she screams for a receiver." "But
this Skinski proposition," Bunch groaned; "isn't that taking a long chance?
Clara J. was always bitterly opposed to you having anything to do with a
theatrical venture--what will she say?" "Peaches needn't be in on this at all,"
I said. "We'll simply put up a thousand each for the expense money, start
Petroskinski, and after the opening night began to gather in the mazooboes. When
we get all the money we need, we'll sell our interest and bow out. It's a pipe,
Bunch. I tell you, this Skinski has them all faded to a whisper. He has a bunch
of new illusions that will simply make the jay audiences sit up and throw money
at us. And as for sleight-of-hand and card tricks, well, say! Skinski can throw
a new pack of cards up in the air and bite his initials on the queen of diamonds
before it hits the floor. He's a marvel." "Where did you find him?" Bunch
inquired. "At a club smoker," I answered. "He was the hit of the evening. He
pulled a few snake tricks down there and in five minutes he had all the members
of the Highball Association climbing the water wagon. That was the same evening
I took Clara J. to the St. Regis to dinner. Did I ever tell you about it, Bunch?
Well, say, it may help you to forget your troubles. It's a swell joint, all
right, O.K., is the St. Regis, but hereafter me for the beanery thing with the
high stool and the low prices. "In the St. Regis the faces of the clerks and the
clocks gave token that much money changed hands while it was building. "In the
lobby the furniture was covered with men about town, who sat around with a
checkbook in each hand and made faces at the cash registers. "There are more
bellboys than bedrooms in the hotel. They use them for change. Every time you
give the cashier $15 he hands you back $1.50 and six bellboys. "We took a peep
at the diamond-backed dining-room and when I saw the waiters refusing everything
but certified checks in the way of a tip, I said to Peaches, 'This is no place
for us!' But she wouldn't let go, and we filed in to the appetite killery. "A
very polite lieutenant-waiter, with a sergeant-waiter and two corporal-waiters,
greeted us and we gave the countersign, 'Abandon wealth, all ye who enter here.'
"Then the lieutenant-waiter and his army corps deployed by columns of four and
escorted us to the most expensive looking trough I ever saw in a dining-room.
"'Peaches,' I said to my wife, 'I'm doing this to please you, but after I pay
the check, it's me to file a petition in bankruptcy.' "But she only grinned,
picked up the point-lace napkin and began to admire the onyx furniture. "'_Que
souhaitez vous_?' said the waiter, bowing so low that I could feel a chill
running through my little bank account. "'I guess he means you,' I whispered to
Peaches, but she looked very solemnly at the menu card and began to bite her
lips. "'_Je suis tout a votre service_,' the waiter cross-countered before I
could recover, and he had me gasping. It never struck me that I had to take a
course in French before entering the St. Regis hunger foundry, and there I sat
making funny faces at the tablecloth, while my wife blushed crimson and the
waiter kept on bowing like an animated jack-knife. "'Say, Mike!' I ventured
after a bit; 'tip us off to a quiet bunch of eating that will fit a couple of
appetites just out seeing the sights. Nothing that will put a kink in a year's
income, you know, Beau; just suggest some little thing that looks better than it
tastes, but is not too expensive to keep down.' "'_Oui, oui_!' His Marseillaise
came back at me, '_un diner confortable doit se composer de potage, de volaille
bouillie ou rotie, chaude ou froide, de gibier, de plats rares et distingues, de
poissons, de sucreries, de patisseries et de fruits_!' "I looked at my wife, she
looked at me, then we both looked out the window and wished we had never been
born. "'Say, Garsong,' I said, after we came to, 'my wife is a daughter of the
American Revolution and she's so patriotic she eats only in United States, so
cut out the Moulin Rouge lyrics and let's get down to cases. How much will it
set me back if I order a plain steak--just enough to flirt with two very polite
appetites?' "'Nine dollars and seventy cents,' said Joan of Arc's brother Bill;
'the seventy cents is for the steak and the nine dollars will help some to pay
for the Looey the Fifteenth furniture in the bridal chamber.' "'Save the money,
John,' whispered Peaches; 'and we'll buy a cow with it.' "'How about a sliver of
roast beef with some slapped potatoes,' I said to the waiter. 'Is it a bull
market for an order like that?' "'Three dollars and forty-two cents,' answered
Henri of Navarre; 'forty-two cents for the order and three dollars to help pay
for the French velvet curtains in the golden suite on the second floor.' "'Keep
on guessing, John; you'll wear him out,' Peaches whispered. "'Possibly a little
cold lamb with a suggestion of potato salad on the side might satisfy us,' I
said; 'make me an estimate.' "'Four dollars and eighteen cents,' replied Patsey
Boulanger; 'eighteen cents for the lamb and salad and the four dollars for the
Looey the Fifteenth graperies in the drawing-room.' "'Ask him if there's a
bargain counter anywhere in the dining-room,' whispered Peaches. "'My dear,' I
said to Clara J., 'we have already displaced about sixty dollars' worth of space
in this dyspepsia emporium, and we must, therefore, behave like gentlemen and
order something, no matter what the cost. What are the savings of a life-time
compared with our honor!' "The waiter bowed so low that his shoulder blades
cracked like a whip. "'Bring us,' I said, 'a plain omelet and one dish of
prunes.' [Illustration:  "Bring us a plain omelet and one dish of prunes."] "I
waited till Peter Girofla translated this into French and then I added, 'And on
the side, please, two glasses of water and three toothpicks. Have the prunes
fricasseed, wash the water on both corners, and bring the toothpicks rare.' "The
waiter rushed away and all around us we could hear money talking to itself.
"Fair women sat at the tables picking dishes out of the bill of fare which
brought the blush of sorrow to the faces of their escorts. It was a wonderful
sight, especially for those who have a nervous chill every time the gas bill
comes in. "When we ate our modest little dinner the waiter presented a check
which called for three dollars and thirty-three cents. "'The thirty-three cents
is for what you ordered,' Alexander J. Dumas explained, 'and the three dollars
is for the French hangings in the parlor.' "'Holy Smoke!' I cried; 'that fellow
Looey the Fifteenth has been doing a lot of work around here hasn't he?' but the
waiter was so busy watching the finish of the change he handed me that he didn't
crack a smile. "Then I got reckless and handed him a fifty-cent tip. "The waiter
looked at the fifty cents and turned pale. "Then he looked at me and turned
paler. "Then he tried to thank me, but he caught another flash of that plebeian
fifty and it choked him. "Then he took a long look at the half-dollar and with a
low moan he passed away. "In the excitement I grabbed Peaches and we flew for
home. "Say! Bunch! the only time I'll ever go in the St. Regis again will be
just after a hearty dinner." "I guess you're right, John, but what about this
scheme to win out my wedding money?" Bunch queried. "I'm dreadfully nervous
about it." "I know. Bunch, I know just how you feel. I'm quite a bit to the St.
Vitus myself, because if Clara J. ever gets wise that I've been speculating
again after faithfully promising her to cut out all the guessing contests, she's
liable to say something unkind. I simply must get that money back, Bunch, before
she knows I lost it, and Signor Petroskinski is the name of our paying teller. I
tell you, Bunch, we can't lose if we handle this cinch right, and I've got it
all framed up. It's good for a thousand plunks apiece every week, so cut out the
yesterday gag and think of a fat to-morrow." "I'd like to see this
Petroskinski," said Bunch. "I'll have him take luncheon with us to-morrow at the
Hotel Astor--twelve thirty. Are you for me to the finish, Bunch?" "If you think
it's all right I'll trail," said Bunch, and we shook hands. "But not a word to
the home folks," I cautioned him. CHAPTER II. JOHN HENRY GETS A SUFFICIENCY.
Since Uncle Peter Grant was elected Mayor of Ruraldene one book ago, our family
group considers it extremely disloyal to stay in the big town for more than four
hours at a time. So with us it is a case of catching those imitation railroad
trains at all sorts of hours and commute to beat the band. Since I became a
confirmed commuter I have sprained three watches and two of my legs trying to
catch trains that are wild enough to dodge a dog-catcher. The commuters are
divided into two classes: going and coming. One of the first rules for a
commuter to follow after he locates the railroad station, and hikes there a
couple of times to get in training, is to get a red and pink and blue hammock. A
hammock is a necessary evil in the country, because only by this means can the
insects become acquainted with the new commuter. The day after we first put up
our new hammock Uncle Peter came rubbering around to look it over. He was all
swelled up over being elected Mayor, and he dropped in the hammock with a
splash. Ten seconds later the rope exploded and Uncle Peter made a deep
impression on the stone porch. Every mosquito in the neighborhood rushed to his
assistance and tried to lift him up with their teeth. Then Uncle Peter ran home
and told Aunt Martha that Cinders, our bulldog, had tried to bite him. The
national emblem of the commuter is the lawn-mower. The lawn-mower was invented
originally for the purpose of giving the lawn a quick shave, and because it
can't talk like a barber it makes a noise like the fall of Port Arthur. I
remember the first day I decided I would trim the vandyke beard on our lawn. Of
course I got all mine, and I got it good. The result will always live in history
side by side with the battle of Gettysburg. The lawn-mower was sleeping
peacefully in the barn when I rushed in and dragged it shriekingly from its
slumbers. Perhaps it was because I forgot to lather the lawn, but any way it was
the hardest shave I ever had anything to do with. That lawn-mower began to
complain so loudly that the neighbors for miles around rushed to the rock pile
and armed themselves for the fray. The committee of citizens attracted by the
screams of the lawn-mower came over to see if I was killing a member of the
family or only a distant relative. When they saw me boxing the ears of a
stubborn lawn-mower they said my punishment was heavy enough, so they threw away
the lynching rope and left me at the post. Clara J. came out on the porch and
said, "John, perhaps that lawn-mower would stop screaming if you used a little
axle grease!" "All right," I came back at her, "but it will take me an hour and
a half to find out which part of the lawnmower will fit the axle grease." Then I
lifted the machinery up to examine its constitution and by-laws, and about two
and a half pounds of wrought iron fell off and landed on my instep. The wrought
iron made good. Then I tried to stand on the other foot, but I lost my balance
and fell on the lawn-mower's third rail. I never was so mortified in my life as
when that lawn-mower began to saw its initials on my shin bones. Every time I
tried to get up I lost my balance, and every time I lost my balance the lawn-
mower would leap up in the air and fall on my wish-bone. When loving hands
finally pulled us apart I was two doors and a half below unconsciousness, while
the lawnmower had recovered its second wind and was wagging its tail with
excitement. After waiting for about ten minutes for me to come back in the ring,
the lawn-mower got impatient and began to bark at me in Yiddish, so I decided
that our lawn could grow whiskers like a Populist farmer and be hanged to it.
Another splendid bit of local color in the life of some commuters is the tunnel
which runs from Forty-second Street up as far as One Hundred and Fifty in the
shade. A ride through this tunnel on a hot day will put you over on Woosey
Avenue quicker than a No. 9 pill in Hop Lee's smoke factory. In order to get out
to Ruraldene I have to use the tunnel, and every time I use it it leaves
something which looks like the mark of Cain across my brow. The first day I went
through that tunnel will always remain one of my hottest memories. I lost nine
pounds of solid flesh somewhere between my shoulder blade and Seventy-ninth
Street. The sensation is the same as a Bad Man's hereafter, including the
sulphur. First I choked up a little, then I coughed, then I stirred uneasily,
and then I looked out the window and prayed for the daylight, and then I looked
at my newspaper, but I couldn't read it, because the railroad company had found
the gas bill pretty heavy last month and they were cutting down expenses. Then I
lost my breath, and when I got it back I found it wasn't mine. Then I began to
fan myself with my hat, but I stopped when the man behind me began to kick
because I was handing him more than his just share of the tunnel gas. Then I
began, to choke up again, and then I coughed, and then I could feel something
fat and mysterious playing hide and go seek around my brain, but outside all was
black as ink, and only from the noise could I tell that the road was still
paying dividends. The air began to get close and thick like a porterhouse steak
in a St. Louis hotel. I began to breathe like my wife crochets an open-faced
stocking--one, two, three, drop one; one, two, three, four, drop one. Then my
blood began to curdle and cold chills ran up my back and liked it so well they
ran down again. My respiration was 8 to 1, my inspiration was 9 to 6 for a
place, and my perspiration was like a cloudburst. I had made my will with a few
mental and Indian reservations, and was choking up for the last time when, with
one mighty jump forward, the train shook itself free from the tunnel and once
more we were out in the sunlight. After picking enough sulphur off my clothes to
make a box of matches, I reached gently over and tried to put the window up, but
it was closed tighter than a sacred saloon on Sunday. I gave the window-sash a
couple of upper-cuts and a few short-arm punches, but it sat there and laughed
in my face. The brakeman came through, and I spoke to him about the window. He
said, "The first time I see the president of the road I'll tell him about it!"
and left me flat. Once more I tried to open that window, but I only succeeded in
opening my collar; so then I opened my mouth and made a short but spicy
announcement, whereupon the old lady in the seat ahead of me got up and left the
car. Just then the train pulled into a station which I hadn't paid for, but I
went out and took it, because it contained a little fresh air. Some day I will
mention the name of this railroad company and make them blush. Well, after I
left Bunch that afternoon, I ducked for the depot, and reached Ruraldene just in
time to witness the beginning of a most painful episode. The house was lighted
up from cellar to attic. As soon as I opened the door I found our respected
Mayor, Uncle Peter, and he was also lit up. "It's a surprise, Johnny," he
whispered hoarsely. "Clara J. is giving an entertainment for the benefit of the
Christian Soldiers' League, and it's going to cost you two dollars to come into
your own house." It made an awful hit with Uncle Peter to see me cough up those
two bones, but I said nothing and made good. My wife called it a musicale, but
to me it looked more like a fight. With the help of Aunt Martha and Alice Grey,
my wife arranged the programme and kept it dark to surprise the rest of the
family. It was such a surprise to me that I felt like doing a glide to the
woodlands. It was my second experience with a musicale, and this one cured me
all right. You know I don't care much for society--especially when it breaks
into our bungalow and begins to scratch my furniture with its high-heeled shoes.
But just to please Peaches I promised to go in the parlor and not be an insult
to those present. For awhile everybody sat around and sized up what everybody
else was wearing. Then they gave each other the silent double-cross. Presently
my wife whispered to Miss Cleopatra Hungerschnitz, whereupon that young lady
giggled her way over to the piano and began to knock its teeth out. The way
Cleopatra went after one of Beethoven's sonatas and slapped its ears was
pitiful. Cleopatra learned to injure a piano at a conservatory of music, and she
could take a fugo by Victor Hugo and leave it for dead in about thirty-two bars.
At the finish of the sonata we all applauded Cleopatra just as loudly as we
could, in the hope that she would faint with surprise and stop playing, but no
such luck. She tied a couple of chords together and swung that piano like a pair
of Indian clubs. First she did "My Old Kentucky Home," with variations, until
everybody who had a home began to weep for fear it might get to be like her
Kentucky home. The variations were where she made a mistake and struck the right
note. Then Cleopatra moved up to the squeaky end of the piano and gave an
imitation of a Swiss music box. It sounded to me like a Swiss cheese. Presently
Cleopatra ran out of raw material and subsided, while we all applauded her with
our fingers crossed, and two very thoughtful ladies began to talk fast to
Cleopatra so as to take her mind off the piano. Then the Bingledingle brothers,
known as Oscar and Victor, opened fire on us with a couple of mandolins. Oscar
and Victor play entirely by hand. They don't know one note from another, and
they can prove it when they begin to play. Their mother believes them to be
prodigies of genius. She is alone in her belief. After Oscar and Victor had
chased one of Sousa's marches all over the parlor and finally left it
unconscious under the sofa, they bowed and ceased firing, and then they went out
in the dining-room and filled their storage batteries with ice cream and cake.
This excitement was followed by another catastrophe named Minnehaha Jones, who
picked up a couple of soprano songs and screeched them at us. Minnehaha is one
of those fearless singers who vocalize without a safety valve. She always keeps
her eyes closed, so she can't tell just when her audience gets up and leaves the
room. The next treat was a mixed duet on the flute and trombone between Clarence
Smith and Lancelot Diffenberger, with a violin obligate on the side by Hector
Tompkins. Never before have I seen music so roughly handled. It looked like a
walk-over for Clarence, but in the fifth round he blew a couple of green notes
and Lancelot got the decision. Then, for a consolation prize, Hector was led out
in the middle of the room, where he assassinated Mascagni's _Cavalleria
Rusticana_ so thoroughly that it will never be able to enter a fifty-cent table
d'hote restaurant again. Then Cornucopia Coogan arose and gave us a few select
recitations. She weighs 295 pounds and she was immense. Just as she started to
tell us that curfew would not ring to-night Uncle Peter winked at me, and we
sneaked out and began to drown our sorrow. Those musicales would be all to the
good if the music didn't suffocate them. After the crowd had left that night
Peaches said to me, "John, Uncle Peter and Aunt Martha and I have been talking
matters over to-day, and we've arranged a most delightful surprise for you!"
"What is it, another one of those parlor riots?" I asked, "If so, I want to tell
you right now that you couldn't surprise me if Uncle Peter and Aunt Martha
stepped out and did a song and dance in black face." Peaches laughed. "Oh! that
isn't it," she chuckled. "It has something to do with the $5,000 you've saved."
"Oh! it has," I muttered faintly. "Yes, Uncle Peter thinks we better not invest
it in that house just now," she went on. "He has a better plan. You are to give
him the money and he will invest it for you." "Ah!" I said. "But that isn't the
real surprise," she cooed. "It will do," I answered. "Uncle Peter is so
delighted that you have kept your promise to me not to speculate any more that
he has planned--oh! I nearly told, and it's _such_ a secret!" Then I went over
into a corner and got busy with my thoughts. Bunch and I would have to get
Petroskinski to work in a hurry. We both needed the money. CHAPTER III. JOHN
HENRY GETS BUSY. We were a half-hour early for my appointment with Signor
Petroskinski when Bunch and I strolled into the cafe of the Hotel Astor the next
day. "Bunch," I said, when the waiter had forced a confession from us, "there's
doings out home. Clara J. tipped me off last night that I must hand over my five
thousand plunks to be properly invested by the Mayor of Ruraldene." "Uncle
Peter!" chuckled Bunch. "Now I can't tip my hand to the old gentleman and have
him lecture me all over the place, can I, Bunch?" "Not unless you want your wife
to know that you sprained your promise." "Then it's up to me to press the button
and start my get-rich-quick concern," I said. "I simply can't go home and hand
them a sad drool about being coaxed into the Street and being trimmed for my
coin--nix! The only thing to do is to go out and get it back, and get it quick,
eh, Bunch?" "You bet, John," Bunch agreed. "I spent last evening with Alice and
I felt like phony money all the time. She's going right ahead with the wedding
preparations and I simply hadn't the nerve to tell her that I lost nearly every
penny I had. Uncle William Grey tiptoed into the parlor for a few moments and
began to congratulate me on the good reports he had had from Alice with regard
to my ability to save a bit of money. I could feel myself shrivelling up as he
talked and the parlor began to turn around and start for the Bennings track." "I
know the feeling," I said earnestly. "There was a time, Bunch, that whenever my
wife mentioned the word money to me I could see a horse come into the room and
shake his mane at me." "And then," Bunch continued, "Uncle William said to me,
'Jefferson, my boy, Alice tells me you've already saved up five thousand, and
I'm proud of you. I didn't like you at first, because I thought you were a harum
scarum like your friend, John Henry; but now that you've developed such manly
traits of character I'm going to take four thousand of your money, put the same
amount in for Alice, and start you in business.' Say, John, I wanted to go
through the parlor floor and on through the earth and then out through the
busiest fort at Port Arthur, and let a Jap shell knock my silly head off."
"We're both up against it for fair," I said; "and we'll have to get in the ice-
cutting business right away. As I told you, this Signor Petroskinski is the
marvel of the age, and we can simply coin money with him. Two thousand dollars
will start the driving wheels--gi' me your thousand and I'll put it with mine."
Bunch dug out his last bundle of big bills and I gave him the partnership
articles I had framed up. "We'll open up in New Rochelle," I said, "next
Thursday night. Charlie Osgood is a fri