Chapter I The Eye of Death; or, the Murder Charge

The dining-room of the Dukes had been set out for the Court of Beacon with a certain impromptu pomposity that seemed somehow to increase its cosiness.
The big room was, as it were, cut up into small rooms, with walls only waist high—the sort of separation that children make when they are playing at shops.
This had been done by Moses Gould and Michael Moon (the two most active members of this remarkable inquiry) with the ordinary furniture of the place.
At one end of the long mahogany table was set the one enormous garden chair, which was surmounted by the old torn tent or umbrella which Smith himself had suggested as a coronation canopy.
Inside this erection could be perceived the dumpy form of Mrs. Duke, with cushions and a form of countenance that already threatened slumber.
At the other end sat the accused Smith, in a kind of dock; for he was carefully fenced in with a quadrilateral of light bedroom chairs, any of which he could have tossed out the window with his big toe.
He had been provided with pens and paper, out of the latter of which he made paper boats, paper darts, and paper dolls contentedly throughout the whole proceedings.
He never spoke or even looked up, but seemed as unconscious as a child on the floor of an empty nursery.
On a row of chairs raised high on the top of a long settee sat the three young ladies with their backs up against the window, and Mary Gray in the middle; it was something between a jury box and the stall of the Queen of Beauty at a tournament.
Down the centre of the long table Moon had built a low barrier out of eight bound volumes of “Good Words” to express the moral wall that divided the conflicting parties.
On the right side sat the two advocates of the prosecution, Dr. Pym and Mr. Gould; behind a barricade of books and documents, chiefly (in the case of Dr. Pym) solid volumes of criminology.
On the other side, Moon and Inglewood, for the defence, were also fortified with books and papers; but as these included several old yellow volumes by Ouida and Wilkie Collins, the hand of Mr.
Moon seemed to have been somewhat careless and comprehensive.
As for the victim and prosecutor, Dr. Warner, Moon wanted at first to have him kept entirely behind a high screen in the corner, urging the indelicacy of his appearance in court, but privately assuring him of an unofficial permission to peep over the top now and then.
Dr. Warner, however, failed to rise to the chivalry of such a course, and after some little disturbance and discussion he was accommodated with a seat on the right side of the table in a line with his legal advisers.
It was before this solidly-established tribunal that Dr. Cyrus Pym, after passing a hand through the honey-coloured hair over each ear, rose to open the case.
His statement was clear and even restrained, and such flights of imagery as occurred in it only attracted attention by a certain indescribable abruptness, not uncommon in the flowers of American speech.
He planted the points of his ten frail fingers on the mahogany, closed his eyes, and opened his mouth.
“The time has gone by,” he said, “when murder could be regarded as a moral and individual act, important perhaps to the murderer, perhaps to the murdered.
Science has profoundly...” here he paused, poising his compressed finger and thumb in the air as if he were holding an elusive idea very tight by its tail, then he screwed up his eyes and said “modified,” and let it go—“has profoundly Modified our view of death.
In superstitious ages it was regarded as the termination of life, catastrophic, and even tragic, and was often surrounded by solemnity.
Brighter days, however, have dawned, and we now see death as universal and inevitable, as part of that great soul-stirring and heart-upholding average which we call for convenience the order of nature.
In the same way we have come to consider murder SOCIALLY.
Rising above the mere private feelings of a man while being forcibly deprived of life, we are privileged to behold murder as a mighty whole, to see the rich rotation of the cosmos, bringing, as it brings the golden harvests and the golden-bearded harvesters, the return for ever of the slayers and the slain.”

He looked down, somewhat affected with his own eloquence, coughed slightly, putting up four of his pointed fingers with the excellent manners of Boston, and continued: “There is but one result of this happier and humaner outlook which concerns the wretched man before us.
It is that thoroughly elucidated by a Milwaukee doctor, our great secret-guessing Sonnenschein, in his great work, ‘The Destructive Type.’ We do not denounce Smith as a murderer, but rather as a murderous man.
The type is such that its very life— I might say its very health—is in killing.
Some hold that it is not properly an aberration, but a newer and even a higher creature.
My dear old friend Dr. Bulger, who kept ferrets—” (here Moon suddenly ejaculated a loud “hurrah!” but so instantaneously resumed his tragic expression that Mrs. Duke looked everywhere else for the sound); Dr. Pym continued somewhat sternly—“who, in the interests of knowledge, kept ferrets, felt that the creature’s ferocity is not utilitarian, but absolutely an end in itself.
However this may be with ferrets, it is certainly so with the prisoner.
In his other iniquities you may find the cunning of the maniac; but his acts of blood have almost the simplicity of sanity.
But it is the awful sanity of the sun and the elements—a cruel, an evil sanity.
As soon stay the iris-leapt cataracts of our virgin West as stay the natural force that sends him forth to slay.
No environment, however scientific, could have softened him.
Place that man in the silver-silent purity of the palest cloister, and there will be some deed of violence done with the crozier or the alb.
Rear him in a happy nursery, amid our brave-browed Anglo-Saxon infancy, and he will find some way to strangle with the skipping-rope or brain with the brick.
Circumstances may be favourable, training may be admirable, hopes may be high, but the huge elemental hunger of Innocent Smith for blood will in its appointed season burst like a well-timed bomb.”

Arthur Inglewood glanced curiously for an instant at the huge creature at the foot of the table, who was fitting a paper figure with a cocked hat, and then looked back at Dr. Pym, who was concluding in a quieter tone.
“It only remains for us,” he said, “to bring forward actual evidence of his previous attempts.
By an agreement already made with the Court and the leaders of the defence, we are permitted to put in evidence authentic letters from witnesses to these scenes, which the defence is free to examine.
Out of several cases of such outrages we have decided to select one— the clearest and most scandalous.
I will therefore, without further delay, call on my junior, Mr. Gould, to read two letters—one from the Sub-Warden and the other from the porter of Brakespeare College, in Cambridge University.”

Gould jumped up with a jerk like a jack-in-the-box, an academic-looking paper in his hand and a fever of importance on his face.
He began in a loud, high, cockney voice that was as abrupt as a cock-crow:—

“Sir,—Hi am the Sub-Warden of Brikespeare College, Cambridge—”

“Lord have mercy on us,” muttered Moon, making a backward movement as men do when a gun goes off.
“Hi am the Sub-Warden of Brikespeare College, Cambridge,” proclaimed the uncompromising Moses, “and I can endorse the description you gave of the un’appy Smith.
It was not alone my unfortunate duty to rebuke many of the lesser violences of his undergraduate period, but I was actually a witness to the last iniquity which terminated that period.
Hi happened to passing under the house of my friend the Warden of Brikespeare, which is semi-detached from the College and connected with it by two or three very ancient arches or props, like bridges, across a small strip of water connected with the river.
To my grive astonishment I be’eld my eminent friend suspended in mid-air and clinging to one of these pieces of masonry, his appearance and attitude indicatin’ that he suffered from the grivest apprehensions.
After a short time I heard two very loud shots, and distinctly perceived the unfortunate undergraduate Smith leaning far out of the Warden’s window and aiming at the Warden repeatedly with a revolver.
Upon seeing me, Smith burst into a loud laugh (in which impertinence was mingled with insanity), and appeared to desist.
I sent the college porter for a ladder, and he succeeded in detaching the Warden from his painful position.
Smith was sent down.
The photograph I enclose is from the group of the University Rifle Club prizemen, and represents him as he was when at the College.— Hi am, your obedient servant, Amos Boulter.
“The other letter,” continued Gould in a glow of triumph, “is from the porter, and won’t take long to read.
“Dear Sir,—It is quite true that I am the porter of Brikespeare College, and that I ’elped the Warden down when the young man was shooting at him, as Mr. Boulter has said in his letter.
The young man who was shooting at him was Mr. Smith, the same that is in the photograph Mr. Boulter sends.— Yours respectfully, Samuel Barker.”

Gould handed the two letters across to Moon, who examined them.
But for the vocal divergences in the matter of h’s and a’s, the Sub-Warden’s letter was exactly as Gould had rendered it; and both that and the porter’s letter were plainly genuine.
Moon handed them to Inglewood, who handed them back in silence to Moses Gould.
“So far as this first charge of continual attempted murder is concerned,” said Dr. Pym, standing up for the last time, “that is my case.”

Michael Moon rose for the defence with an air of depression which gave little hope at the outset to the sympathizers with the prisoner.
He did not, he said, propose to follow the doctor into the abstract questions.
“I do not know enough to be an agnostic,” he said, rather wearily, “and I can only master the known and admitted elements in such controversies.
As for science and religion, the known and admitted facts are plain enough.
All that the parsons say is unproved.
All that the doctors say is disproved.
That’s the only difference between science and religion there’s ever been, or will be.
Yet these new discoveries touch me, somehow,” he said, looking down sorrowfully at his boots.
“They remind me of a dear old great-aunt of mine who used to enjoy them in her youth.
It brings tears to my eyes.
I can see the old bucket by the garden fence and the line of shimmering poplars behind—”

“Hi!
here, stop the ’bus a bit,” cried Mr. Moses Gould, rising in a sort of perspiration.
“We want to give the defence a fair run—like gents, you know; but any gent would draw the line at shimmering poplars.”

“Well, hang it all,” said Moon, in an injured manner, “if Dr. Pym may have an old friend with ferrets, why mayn’t I have an old aunt with poplars?”

“I am sure,” said Mrs. Duke, bridling, with something almost like a shaky authority, “Mr.
Moon may have what aunts he likes.”

“Why, as to liking her,” began Moon, “I—but perhaps, as you say, she is scarcely the core of the question.
I repeat that I do not mean to follow the abstract speculations.
For, indeed, my answer to Dr. Pym is simple and severely concrete.
Dr. Pym has only treated one side of the psychology of murder.
If it is true that there is a kind of man who has a natural tendency to murder, is it not equally true”—here he lowered his voice and spoke with a crushing quietude and earnestness—“is it not equally true that there is a kind of man who has a natural tendency to get murdered?
Is it not at least a hypothesis holding the field that Dr. Warner is such a man?
I do not speak without the book, any more than my learned friend.
The whole matter is expounded in Dr. Moonenschein’s monumental work, ‘The Destructible Doctor,’ with diagrams, showing the various ways in which such a person as Dr. Warner may be resolved into his elements.
In the light of these facts—”

“Hi, stop the ’bus!
stop the ’bus!” cried Moses, jumping up and down and gesticulating in great excitement.
“My principal’s got something to say!
My principal wants to do a bit of talkin’.”

Dr. Pym was indeed on his feet, looking pallid and rather vicious.
“I have strictly CON-fined myself,” he said nasally, “to books to which immediate reference can be made.
I have Sonnenschein’s ‘Destructive Type’ here on the table, if the defence wish to see it.
Where is this wonderful work on Destructability Mr.
Moon is talking about?
Does it exist?
Can he produce it?”

“Produce it!” cried the Irishman with a rich scorn.
“I’ll produce it in a week if you’ll pay for the ink and paper.”

“Would it have much authority?” asked Pym, sitting down.
“Oh, authority!” said Moon lightly; “that depends on a fellow’s religion.”

Dr. Pym jumped up again.
“Our authority is based on masses of accurate detail,” he said.
“It deals with a region in which things can be handled and tested.
My opponent will at least admit that death is a fact of experience.”

“Not of mine,” said Moon mournfully, shaking his head.
“I’ve never experienced such a thing in all my life.”

“Well, really,” said Dr. Pym, and sat down sharply amid a crackle of papers.
“So we see,” resumed Moon, in the same melancholy voice, “that a man like Dr. Warner is, in the mysterious workings of evolution, doomed to such attacks.
My client’s onslaught, even if it occurred, was not unique.
I have in my hand letters from more than one acquaintance of Dr. Warner whom that remarkable man has affected in the same way.
Following the example of my learned friends I will read only two of them.
The first is from an honest and laborious matron living off the Harrow Road.
“Mr.
Moon, Sir,—Yes, I did throw a sorsepan at him.
Wot then?
It was all I had to throw, all the soft things being porned, and if your Docter Warner doesn’t like having sorsepans thrown at him, don’t let him wear his hat in a respectable woman’s parler, and tell him to leave orf smiling or tell us the joke.—Yours respectfully, Hannah Miles.
“The other letter is from a physician of some note in Dublin, with whom Dr. Warner was once engaged in consultation.
He writes as follows:—

“Dear Sir,—The incident to which you refer is one which I regret, and which, moreover, I have never been able to explain.
My own branch of medicine is not mental; and I should be glad to have the view of a mental specialist on my singular momentary and indeed almost automatic action.
To say that I ‘pulled Dr. Warner’s nose,’ is, however, inaccurate in a respect that strikes me as important.
That I punched his nose I must cheerfully admit (I need not say with what regret); but pulling seems to me to imply a precision of objective with which I cannot reproach myself.
In comparison with this, the act of punching was an outward, instantaneous, and even natural gesture.— Believe me, yours faithfully, Burton Lestrange.
“I have numberless other letters,” continued Moon, “all bearing witness to this widespread feeling about my eminent friend; and I therefore think that Dr. Pym should have admitted this side of the question in his survey.
We are in the presence, as Dr. Pym so truly says, of a natural force.
As soon stay the cataract of the London water-works as stay the great tendency of Dr. Warner to be assassinated by somebody.
Place that man in a Quakers’ meeting, among the most peaceful of Christians, and he will immediately be beaten to death with sticks of chocolate.
Place him among the angels of the New Jerusalem, and he will be stoned to death with precious stones.
Circumstances may be beautiful and wonderful, the average may be heart-upholding, the harvester may be golden-bearded, the doctor may be secret-guessing, the cataract may be iris-leapt, the Anglo-Saxon infant may be brave-browed, but against and above all these prodigies the grand simple tendency of Dr. Warner to get murdered will still pursue its way until it happily and triumphantly succeeds at last.”

He pronounced this peroration with an appearance of strong emotion.
But even stronger emotions were manifesting themselves on the other side of the table.
Dr. Warner had leaned his large body quite across the little figure of Moses Gould and was talking in excited whispers to Dr. Pym.
That expert nodded a great many times and finally started to his feet with a sincere expression of sternness.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he cried indignantly, “as my colleague has said, we should be delighted to give any latitude to the defence—if there were a defence.
But Mr.
Moon seems to think he is there to make jokes— very good jokes I dare say, but not at all adapted to assist his client.
He picks holes in science.
He picks holes in my client’s social popularity.
He picks holes in my literary style, which doesn’t seem to suit his high-toned European taste.
But how does this picking of holes affect the issue?
This Smith has picked two holes in my client’s hat, and with an inch better aim would have picked two holes in his head.
All the jokes in the world won’t unpick those holes or be any use for the defence.”

Inglewood looked down in some embarrassment, as if shaken by the evident fairness of this, but Moon still gazed at his opponent in a dreamy way.
“The defence?” he said vaguely—“oh, I haven’t begun that yet.”

“You certainly have not,” said Pym warmly, amid a murmur of applause from his side, which the other side found it impossible to answer.
“Perhaps, if you have any defence, which has been doubtful from the very beginning—”

“While you’re standing up,” said Moon, in the same almost sleepy style, “perhaps I might ask you a question.”

“A question?
Certainly,” said Pym stiffly.
“It was distinctly arranged between us that as we could not cross-examine the witnesses, we might vicariously cross-examine each other.
We are in a position to invite all such inquiry.”

“I think you said,” observed Moon absently, “that none of the prisoner’s shots really hit the doctor.”

“For the cause of science,” cried the complacent Pym, “fortunately not.”

“Yet they were fired from a few feet away.”

“Yes; about four feet.”

“And no shots hit the Warden, though they were fired quite close to him too?” asked Moon.
“That is so,” said the witness gravely.
“I think,” said Moon, suppressing a slight yawn, “that your Sub-Warden mentioned that Smith was one of the University’s record men for shooting.”

“Why, as to that—” began Pym, after an instant of stillness.
“A second question,” continued Moon, comparatively curtly.
“You said there were other cases of the accused trying to kill people.
Why have you not got evidence of them?”

The American planted the points of his fingers on the table again.
“In those cases,” he said precisely, “there was no evidence from outsiders, as in the Cambridge case, but only the evidence of the actual victims.”

“Why didn’t you get their evidence?”

“In the case of the actual victims,” said Pym, “there was some difficulty and reluctance, and—”

“Do you mean,” asked Moon, “that none of the actual victims would appear against the prisoner?”

“That would be exaggerative,” began the other.
“A third question,” said Moon, so sharply that every one jumped.
“You’ve got the evidence of the Sub-Warden who heard some shots; where’s the evidence of the Warden himself who was shot at?
The Warden of Brakespeare lives, a prosperous gentleman.”

“We did ask for a statement from him,” said Pym a little nervously; “but it was so eccentrically expressed that we suppressed it out of deference to an old gentleman whose past services to science have been great.”

Moon leaned forward.
“You mean, I suppose,” he said, “that his statement was favourable to the prisoner.”

“It might be understood so,” replied the American doctor; “but, really, it was difficult to understand at all.
In fact, we sent it back to him.”

“You have no longer, then, any statement signed by the Warden of Brakespeare.”

“No.”

“I only ask,” said Michael quietly, “because we have.
To conclude my case I will ask my junior, Mr. Inglewood, to read a statement of the true story—a statement attested as true by the signature of the Warden himself.”

Arthur Inglewood rose with several papers in his hand, and though he looked somewhat refined and self-effacing, as he always did, the spectators were surprised to feel that his presence was, upon the whole, more efficient and sufficing than his leader’s.
He was, in truth, one of those modest men who cannot speak until they are told to speak; and then can speak well.
Moon was entirely the opposite.
His own impudences amused him in private, but they slightly embarrassed him in public; he felt a fool while he was speaking, whereas Inglewood felt a fool only because he could not speak.
The moment he had anything to say he could speak; and the moment he could speak, speaking seemed quite natural.
Nothing in this universe seemed quite natural to Michael Moon.
“As my colleague has just explained,” said Inglewood, “there are two enigmas or inconsistencies on which we base the defence.
The first is a plain physical fact.
By the admission of everybody, by the very evidence adduced by the prosecution, it is clear that the accused was celebrated as a specially good shot.
Yet on both the occasions complained of he shot from a distance of four or five feet, and shot at him four or five times, and never hit him once.
That is the first startling circumstance on which we base our argument.
The second, as my colleague has urged, is the curious fact that we cannot find a single victim of these alleged outrages to speak for himself.
Subordinates speak for him.
Porters climb up ladders to him.
But he himself is silent.
Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to explain on the spot both the riddle of the shots and the riddle of the silence.
I will first of all read the covering letter in which the true account of the Cambridge incident is contained, and then that document itself.
When you have heard both, there will be no doubt about your decision.
The covering letter runs as follows:—

“Dear Sir,—The following is a very exact and even vivid account of the incident as it really happened at Brakespeare College.
We, the undersigned, do not see any particular reason why we should refer it to any isolated authorship.
The truth is, it has been a composite production; and we have even had some difference of opinion about the adjectives.
But every word of it is true.—We are, yours faithfully,

“Wilfred Emerson Eames, “Warden of Brakespeare College, Cambridge.
“Innocent Smith.
“The enclosed statement,” continued Inglewood, “runs as follows:—

“A celebrated English university backs so abruptly on the river, that it has, so to speak, to be propped up and patched with all sorts of bridges and semi-detached buildings.
The river splits itself into several small streams and canals, so that in one or two corners the place has almost the look of Venice.
It was so especially in the case with which we are concerned, in which a few flying buttresses or airy ribs of stone sprang across a strip of water to connect Brakespeare College with the house of the Warden of Brakespeare.
“The country around these colleges is flat; but it does not seem flat when one is thus in the midst of the colleges.
For in these flat fens there are always wandering lakes and lingering rivers of water.
And these always change what might have been a scheme of horizontal lines into a scheme of vertical lines.
Wherever there is water the height of high buildings is doubled, and a British brick house becomes a Babylonian tower.
In that shining unshaken surface the houses hang head downwards exactly to their highest or lowest chimney.
The coral-coloured cloud seen in that abyss is as far below the world as its original appears above it.
Every scrap of water is not only a window but a skylight.
Earth splits under men’s feet into precipitous aerial perspectives, into which a bird could as easily wing its way as—”

Dr. Cyrus Pym rose in protest.
The documents he had put in evidence had been confined to cold affirmation of fact.
The defence, in a general way, had an indubitable right to put their case in their own way, but all this landscape gardening seemed to him (Dr. Cyrus Pym) to be not up to the business.
“Will the leader of the defence tell me,” he asked, “how it can possibly affect this case, that a cloud was cor’l-coloured, or that a bird could have winged itself anywhere?”

“Oh, I don’t know,” said Michael, lifting himself lazily; “you see, you don’t know yet what our defence is.
Till you know that, don’t you see, anything may be relevant.
Why, suppose,” he said suddenly, as if an idea had struck him, “suppose we wanted to prove the old Warden colour-blind.
Suppose he was shot by a black man with white hair, when he thought he was being shot by a white man with yellow hair!
To ascertain if that cloud was really and truly coral-coloured might be of the most massive importance.”

He paused with a seriousness which was hardly generally shared, and continued with the same fluency: “Or suppose we wanted to maintain that the Warden committed suicide—that he just got Smith to hold the pistol as Brutus’s slave held the sword.
Why, it would make all the difference whether the Warden could see himself plain in still water.
Still water has made hundreds of suicides: one sees oneself so very—well, so very plain.”

“Do you, perhaps,” inquired Pym with austere irony, “maintain that your client was a bird of some sort—say, a flamingo?”

“In the matter of his being a flamingo,” said Moon with sudden severity, “my client reserves his defence.”

No one quite knowing what to make of this, Mr.
Moon resumed his seat and Inglewood resumed the reading of his document:—

“There is something pleasing to a mystic in such a land of mirrors.
For a mystic is one who holds that two worlds are better than one.
In the highest sense, indeed, all thought is reflection.
“This is the real truth, in the saying that second thoughts are best.
Animals have no second thoughts; man alone is able to see his own thought double, as a drunkard sees a lamp-post; man alone is able to see his own thought upside down as one sees a house in a puddle.
This duplication of mentality, as in a mirror, is (we repeat) the inmost thing of human philosophy.
There is a mystical, even a monstrous truth, in the statement that two heads are better than one.
But they ought both to grow on the same body.”

“I know it’s a little transcendental at first,” interposed Inglewood, beaming round with a broad apology, “but you see this document was written in collaboration by a don and a—”

“Drunkard, eh?” suggested Moses Gould, beginning to enjoy himself.
“I rather think,” proceeded Inglewood with an unruffled and critical air, “that this part was written by the don.
I merely warn the Court that the statement, though indubitably accurate, bears here and there the trace of coming from two authors.”

“In that case,” said Dr. Pym, leaning back and sniffing, “I cannot agree with them that two heads are better than one.”

“The undersigned persons think it needless to touch on a kindred problem so often discussed at committees for University Reform: the question of whether dons see double because they are drunk, or get drunk because they see double.
It is enough for them (the undersigned persons) if they are able to pursue their own peculiar and profitable theme—which is puddles.
What (the undersigned persons ask themselves) is a puddle?
A puddle repeats infinity, and is full of light; nevertheless, if analyzed objectively, a puddle is a piece of dirty water spread very thin on mud.
The two great historic universities of England have all this large and level and reflective brilliance.
Nevertheless, or, rather, on the other hand, they are puddles—puddles, puddles, puddles, puddles.
The undersigned persons ask you to excuse an emphasis inseparable from strong conviction.”

Inglewood ignored a somewhat wild expression on the faces of some present, and continued with eminent cheerfulness:—

“Such were the thoughts that failed to cross the mind of the undergraduate Smith as he picked his way among the stripes of canal and the glittering rainy gutters into which the water broke up round the back of Brakespeare College.
Had these thoughts crossed his mind he would have been much happier than he was.
Unfortunately he did not know that his puzzles were puddles.
He did not know that the academic mind reflects infinity and is full of light by the simple process of being shallow and standing still.
In his case, therefore, there was something solemn, and even evil about the infinity implied.
It was half-way through a starry night of bewildering brilliancy; stars were both above and below.
To young Smith’s sullen fancy the skies below seemed even hollower than the skies above; he had a horrible idea that if he counted the stars he would find one too many in the pool.
“In crossing the little paths and bridges he felt like one stepping on the black and slender ribs of some cosmic Eiffel Tower.
For to him, and nearly all the educated youth of that epoch, the stars were cruel things.
Though they glowed in the great dome every night, they were an enormous and ugly secret; they uncovered the nakedness of nature; they were a glimpse of the iron wheels and pulleys behind the scenes.
For the young men of that sad time thought that the god always comes from the machine.
They did not know that in reality the machine only comes from the god.
In short, they were all pessimists, and starlight was atrocious to them— atrocious because it was true.
All their universe was black with white spots.
“Smith looked up with relief from the glittering pools below to the glittering skies and the great black bulk of the college.
The only light other than stars glowed through one peacock-green curtain in the upper part of the building, marking where Dr. Emerson Eames always worked till morning and received his friends and favourite pupils at any hour of the night.
Indeed, it was to his rooms that the melancholy Smith was bound.
Smith had been at Dr. Eames’s lecture for the first half of the morning, and at pistol practice and fencing in a saloon for the second half.
He had been sculling madly for the first half of the afternoon and thinking idly (and still more madly) for the second half.
He had gone to a supper where he was uproarious, and on to a debating club where he was perfectly insufferable, and the melancholy Smith was melancholy still.
Then, as he was going home to his diggings he remembered the eccentricity of his friend and master, the Warden of Brakespeare, and resolved desperately to turn in to that gentleman’s private house.
“Emerson Eames was an eccentric in many ways, but his throne in philosophy and metaphysics was of international eminence; the university could hardly have afforded to lose him, and, moreover, a don has only to continue any of his bad habits long enough to make them a part of the British Constitution.
The bad habits of Emerson Eames were to sit up all night and to be a student of Schopenhauer.
Personally, he was a lean, lounging sort of man, with a blond pointed beard, not so very much older than his pupil Smith in the matter of mere years, but older by centuries in the two essential respects of having a European reputation and a bald head.
“‘I came, against the rules, at this unearthly hour,’ said Smith, who was nothing to the eye except a very big man trying to make himself small, ‘because I am coming to the conclusion that existence is really too rotten.
I know all the arguments of the thinkers that think otherwise—bishops, and agnostics, and those sort of people.
And knowing you were the greatest living authority on the pessimist thinkers—’

“‘All thinkers,’ said Eames, ‘are pessimist thinkers.’

“After a patch of pause, not the first—for this depressing conversation had gone on for some hours with alternations of cynicism and silence— the Warden continued with his air of weary brilliancy: ‘It’s all a question of wrong calculation.
The moth flies into the candle because he doesn’t happen to know that the game is not worth the candle.
The wasp gets into the jam in hearty and hopeful efforts to get the jam into him.
IN the same way the vulgar people want to enjoy life just as they want to enjoy gin—because they are too stupid to see that they are paying too big a price for it.
That they never find happiness—that they don’t even know how to look for it—is proved by the paralyzing clumsiness and ugliness of everything they do.
Their discordant colours are cries of pain.
Look at the brick villas beyond the college on this side of the river.
There’s one with spotted blinds; look at it!
just go and look at it!’

“‘Of course,’ he went on dreamily, ‘one or two men see the sober fact a long way off—they go mad.
Do you notice that maniacs mostly try either to destroy other things, or (if they are thoughtful) to destroy themselves?
The madman is the man behind the scenes, like the man that wanders about the coulisse of a theater.
He has only opened the wrong door and come into the right place.
He sees things at the right angle.
But the common world—’

“‘Oh, hang the common world!’ said the sullen Smith, letting his fist fall on the table in an idle despair.
“‘Let’s give it a bad name first,’ said the Professor calmly, ‘and then hang it.
A puppy with hydrophobia would probably struggle for life while we killed it; but if we were kind we should kill it.
So an omniscient god would put us out of our pain.
He would strike us dead.’

“‘Why doesn’t he strike us dead?’ asked the undergraduate abstractedly, plunging his hands into his pockets.
“‘He is dead himself,’ said the philosopher; ‘that is where he is really enviable.’

“‘To any one who thinks,’ proceeded Eames, ‘the pleasures of life, trivial and soon tasteless, are bribes to bring us into a torture chamber.
We all see that for any thinking man mere extinction is the... What are you doing?...
Are you mad?...
Put that thing down.’

“Dr.
Eames had turned his tired but still talkative head over his shoulder, and had found himself looking into a small round black hole, rimmed by a six-sided circlet of steel, with a sort of spike standing up on the top.
It fixed him like an iron eye.
Through those eternal instants during which the reason is stunned he did not even know what it was.
Then he saw behind it the chambered barrel and cocked hammer of a revolver, and behind that the flushed and rather heavy face of Smith, apparently quite unchanged, or even more mild than before.
“‘I’ll help you out of your hole, old man,’ said Smith, with rough tenderness.
‘I’ll put the puppy out of his pain.’

“Emerson Eames retreated towards the window.
‘Do you mean to kill me?’ he cried.
“‘It’s not a thing I’d do for every one,’ said Smith with emotion; ‘but you and I seem to have got so intimate to-night, somehow.
I know all your troubles now, and the only cure, old chap.’

“‘Put that thing down,’ shouted the Warden.
“‘It’ll soon be over, you know,’ said Smith with the air of a sympathetic dentist.
And as the Warden made a run for the window and balcony, his benefactor followed him with a firm step and a compassionate expression.
“Both men were perhaps surprised to see that the gray and white of early daybreak had already come.
One of them, however, had emotions calculated to swallow up surprise.
Brakespeare College was one of the few that retained real traces of Gothic ornament, and just beneath Dr. Eames’s balcony there ran out what had perhaps been a flying buttress, still shapelessly shaped into gray beasts and devils, but blinded with mosses and washed out with rains.
With an ungainly and most courageous leap, Eames sprang out on this antique bridge, as the only possible mode of escape from the maniac.
He sat astride of it, still in his academic gown, dangling his long thin legs, and considering further chances of flight.
The whitening daylight opened under as well as over him that impression of vertical infinity already remarked about the little lakes round Brakespeare.
Looking down and seeing the spires and chimneys pendent in the pools, they felt alone in space.
They felt as if they were looking over the edge from the North Pole and seeing the South Pole below.
“‘Hang the world, we said,’ observed Smith, ‘and the world is hanged.
“He has hanged the world upon nothing,” says the Bible.
Do you like being hanged upon nothing?
I’m going to be hanged upon something myself.
I’m going to swing for you... Dear, tender old phrase,’ he murmured; ‘never true till this moment.
I am going to swing for you.
For you, dear friend.
For your sake.
At your express desire.’

“‘Help!’ cried the Warden of Brakespeare College; ‘help!’

“‘The puppy struggles,’ said the undergraduate, with an eye of pity, ‘the poor puppy struggles.
How fortunate it is that I am wiser and kinder than he,’ and he sighted his weapon so as exactly to cover the upper part of Eames’s bald head.
“‘Smith,’ said the philosopher with a sudden change to a sort of ghastly lucidity, ‘I shall go mad.’

“‘And so look at things from the right angle,’ observed Smith, sighing gently.
‘Ah, but madness is only a palliative at best, a drug.
The only cure is an operation—an operation that is always successful: death.’

“As he spoke the sun rose.
It seemed to put colour into everything, with the rapidity of a lightning artist.
A fleet of little clouds sailing across the sky changed from pigeon-gray to pink.
All over the little academic town the tops of different buildings took on different tints: here the sun would pick out the green enameled on a pinnacle, there the scarlet tiles of a villa; here the copper ornament on some artistic shop, and there the sea-blue slates of some old and steep church roof.
All these coloured crests seemed to have something oddly individual and significant about them, like crests of famous knights pointed out in a pageant or a battlefield: they each arrested the eye, especially the rolling eye of Emerson Eames as he looked round on the morning and accepted it as his last.
Through a narrow chink between a black timber tavern and a big gray college he could see a clock with gilt hands which the sunshine set on fire.
He stared at it as though hypnotized; and suddenly the clock began to strike, as if in personal reply.
As if at a signal, clock after clock took up the cry: all the churches awoke like chickens at cockcrow.
The birds were already noisy in the trees behind the college.
The sun rose, gathering glory that seemed too full for the deep skies to hold, and the shallow waters beneath them seemed golden and brimming and deep enough for the thirst of the gods.
Just round the corner of the College, and visible from his crazy perch, were the brightest specks on that bright landscape, the villa with the spotted blinds which he had made his text that night.
He wondered for the first time what people lived in them.
“Suddenly he called out with mere querulous authority, as he might have called to a student to shut a door.
“‘Let me come off this place,’ he cried; ‘I can’t bear it.’

“‘I rather doubt if it will bear you,’ said Smith critically; ‘but before you break your neck, or I blow out your brains, or let you back into this room (on which complex points I am undecided) I want the metaphysical point cleared up.
Do I understand that you want to get back to life?’

“‘I’d give anything to get back,’ replied the unhappy professor.
“‘Give anything!’ cried Smith; ‘then, blast your impudence, give us a song!’

“‘What song do you mean?’ demanded the exasperated Eames; ‘what song?’

“‘A hymn, I think, would be most appropriate,’ answered the other gravely.
‘I’ll let you off if you’ll repeat after me the words—

“‘I thank the goodness and the grace     That on my birth have smiled.
And perched me on this curious place,     A happy English child.’

“Dr.
Emerson Eames having briefly complied, his persecutor abruptly told him to hold his hands up in the air.
Vaguely connecting this proceeding with the usual conduct of brigands and bushrangers, Mr. Eames held them up, very stiffly, but without marked surprise.
A bird alighting on his stone seat took no more notice of him than of a comic statue.
“‘You are now engaged in public worship,’ remarked Smith severely, ‘and before I have done with you, you shall thank God for the very ducks on the pond.’

“The celebrated pessimist half articulately expressed his perfect readiness to thank God for the ducks on the pond.
“‘Not forgetting the drakes,’ said Smith sternly.
(Eames weakly conceded the drakes.)
‘Not forgetting anything, please.
You shall thank heaven for churches and chapels and villas and vulgar people and puddles and pots and pans and sticks and rags and bones and spotted blinds.’

“‘All right, all right,’ repeated the victim in despair; ‘sticks and rags and bones and blinds.’

“‘Spotted blinds, I think we said,’ remarked Smith with a rogueish ruthlessness, and wagging the pistol-barrel at him like a long metallic finger.
“‘Spotted blinds,’ said Emerson Eames faintly.
“‘You can’t say fairer than that,’ admitted the younger man, ‘and now I’ll just tell you this to wind up with.
If you really were what you profess to be, I don’t see that it would matter to snail or seraph if you broke your impious stiff neck and dashed out all your drivelling devil-worshipping brains.
But in strict biographical fact you are a very nice fellow, addicted to talking putrid nonsense, and I love you like a brother.
I shall therefore fire off all my cartridges round your head so as not to hit you (I am a good shot, you may be glad to hear), and then we will go in and have some breakfast.’

“He then let off two barrels in the air, which the Professor endured with singular firmness, and then said, ‘But don’t fire them all off.’

“‘Why not’ asked the other buoyantly.
“‘Keep them,’ asked his companion, ‘for the next man you meet who talks as we were talking.’

“It was at this moment that Smith, looking down, perceived apoplectic terror upon the face of the Sub-Warden, and heard the refined shriek with which he summoned the porter and the ladder.
“It took Dr. Eames some little time to disentangle himself from the ladder, and some little time longer to disentangle himself from the Sub-Warden.
But as soon as he could do so unobtrusively, he rejoined his companion in the late extraordinary scene.
He was astonished to find the gigantic Smith heavily shaken, and sitting with his shaggy head on his hands.
When addressed, he lifted a very pale face.
“‘Why, what is the matter?’ asked Eames, whose own nerves had by this time twittered themselves quiet, like the morning birds.
“‘I must ask your indulgence,’ said Smith, rather brokenly.
‘I must ask you to realize that I have just had an escape from death.’

“‘YOU have had an escape from death?’ repeated the Professor in not unpardonable irritation.
‘Well, of all the cheek—’

“‘Oh, don’t you understand, don’t you understand?’ cried the pale young man impatiently.
‘I had to do it, Eames; I had to prove you wrong or die.
When a man’s young, he nearly always has some one whom he thinks the top-water mark of the mind of man— some one who knows all about it, if anybody knows.
“‘Well, you were that to me; you spoke with authority, and not as the scribes.
Nobody could comfort me if YOU said there was no comfort.
If you really thought there was nothing anywhere, it was because you had been there to see.
Don’t you see that I HAD to prove you didn’t really mean it?— or else drown myself in the canal.’

“‘Well,’ said Eames hesitatingly, ‘I think perhaps you confuse—’

“‘Oh, don’t tell me that!’ cried Smith with the sudden clairvoyance of mental pain; ‘don’t tell me I confuse enjoyment of existence with the Will to Live!
That’s German, and German is High Dutch, and High Dutch is Double Dutch.
The thing I saw shining in your eyes when you dangled on that bridge was enjoyment of life and not “the Will to Live.” What you knew when you sat on that damned gargoyle was that the world, when all is said and done, is a wonderful and beautiful place; I know it, because I knew it at the same minute.
I saw the gray clouds turn pink, and the little gilt clock in the crack between the houses.
It was THOSE things you hated leaving, not Life, whatever that is.
Eames, we’ve been to the brink of death together; won’t you admit I’m right?’

“‘Yes,’ said Eames very slowly, ‘I think you are right.
You shall have a First!’

“‘Right!’ cried Smith, springing up reanimated.
‘I’ve passed with honours, and now let me go and see about being sent down.’

“‘You needn’t be sent down,’ said Eames with the quiet confidence of twelve years of intrigue.
‘Everything with us comes from the man on top to the people just round him: I am the man on top, and I shall tell the people round me the truth.’

“The massive Mr. Smith rose and went firmly to the window, but he spoke with equal firmness.
‘I must be sent down,’ he said, ‘and the people must not be told the truth.’

“‘And why not’ asked the other.
“‘Because I mean to follow your advice,’ answered the massive youth, ‘I mean to keep the remaining shots for people in the shameful state you and I were in last night—I wish we could even plead drunkenness.
I mean to keep those bullets for pessimists—pills for pale people.
And in this way I want to walk the world like a wonderful surprise— to float as idly as the thistledown, and come as silently as the sunrise; not to be expected any more than the thunderbolt, not to be recalled any more than the dying breeze.
I don’t want people to anticipate me as a well-known practical joke.
I want both my gifts to come virgin and violent, the death and the life after death.
I am going to hold a pistol to the head of the Modern Man.
But I shall not use it to kill him—only to bring him to life.
I begin to see a new meaning in being the skeleton at the feast.’

“‘You can scarcely be called a skeleton,’ said Dr. Eames, smiling.
“‘That comes of being so much at the feast,’ answered the massive youth.
‘No skeleton can keep his figure if he is always dining out.
But that is not quite what I meant: what I mean is that I caught a kind of glimpse of the meaning of death and all that—the skull and cross-bones, the _memento mori_.
It isn’t only meant to remind us of a future life, but to remind us of a present life too.
With our weak spirits we should grow old in eternity if we were not kept young by death.
Providence has to cut immortality into lengths for us, as nurses cut the bread and butter into fingers.’

“Then he added suddenly in a voice of unnatural actuality, ‘But I know something now, Eames.
I knew it when I saw the clouds turn pink.’

“‘What do you mean?’ asked Eames.
‘What did you know?’

“‘I knew for the first time that murder is really wrong.’

“He gripped Dr. Eames’s hand and groped his way somewhat unsteadily to the door.
Before he had vanished through it he had added, ‘It’s very dangerous, though, when a man thinks for a split second that he understands death.’

“Dr.
Eames remained in repose and rumination some hours after his late assailant had left.
Then he rose, took his hat and umbrella, and went for a brisk if rotatory walk.
Several times, however, he stood outside the villa with the spotted blinds, studying them intently with his head slightly on one side.
Some took him for a lunatic and some for an intending purchaser.
He is not yet sure that the two characters would be widely different.
“The above narrative has been constructed on a principle which is, in the opinion of the undersigned persons, new in the art of letters.
Each of the two actors is described as he appeared to the other.
But the undersigned persons absolutely guarantee the exactitude of the story; and if their version of the thing be questioned, they, the undersigned persons, would deucedly well like to know who does know about it if they don’t.
“The undersigned persons will now adjourn to ‘The Spotted Dog’ for beer.
Farewell.
“(Signed) James Emerson Eames, “Warden of Brakespeare College, Cambridge.
“Innocent Smith.”

Chapter II The Two Curates; or, the Burglary Charge

Arthur Inglewood handed the document he had just read to the leaders of the prosecution, who examined it with their heads together.
Both the Jew and the American were of sensitive and excitable stocks, and they revealed by the jumpings and bumpings of the black head and the yellow that nothing could be done in the way of denial of the document.
The letter from the Warden was as authentic as the letter from the Sub-Warden, however regrettably different in dignity and social tone.
“Very few words,” said Inglewood, “are required to conclude our case in this matter.
Surely it is now plain that our client carried his pistol about with the eccentric but innocent purpose of giving a wholesome scare to those whom he regarded as blasphemers.
In each case the scare was so wholesome that the victim himself has dated from it as from a new birth.
Smith, so far from being a madman, is rather a mad doctor— he walks the world curing frenzies and not distributing them.
That is the answer to the two unanswerable questions which I put to the prosecutors.
That is why they dared not produce a line by any one who had actually confronted the pistol.
All who had actually confronted the pistol confessed that they had profited by it.
That was why Smith, though a good shot, never hit anybody.
He never hit anybody because he was a good shot.
His mind was as clear of murder as his hands are of blood.
This, I say, is the only possible explanation of these facts and of all the other facts.
No one can possibly explain the Warden’s conduct except by believing the Warden’s story.
Even Dr. Pym, who is a very factory of ingenious theories, could find no other theory to cover the case.”

“There are promising per-spectives in hypnotism and dual personality,” said Dr. Cyrus Pym dreamily; “the science of criminology is in its infancy, and—”

“Infancy!” cried Moon, jerking his red pencil in the air with a gesture of enlightenment; “why, that explains it!”

“I repeat,” proceeded Inglewood, “that neither Dr. Pym nor any one else can account on any other theory but ours for the Warden’s signature, for the shots missed and the witnesses missing.”

The little Yankee had slipped to his feet with some return of a cock-fighting coolness.
“The defence,” he said, “omits a coldly colossal fact.
They say we produce none of the actual victims.
Wal, here is one victim—England’s celebrated and stricken Warner.
I reckon he is pretty well produced.
And they suggest that all the outrages were followed by reconciliation.
Wal, there’s no flies on England’s Warner; and he isn’t reconciliated much.”

“My learned friend,” said Moon, getting elaborately to his feet, “must remember that the science of shooting Dr. Warner is in its infancy.
Dr. Warner would strike the idlest eye as one specially difficult to startle into any recognition of the glory of God.
We admit that our client, in this one instance, failed, and that the operation was not successful.
But I am empowered to offer, on behalf of my client, a proposal for operating on Dr. Warner again, at his earliest convenience, and without further fees.”

“’Ang it all, Michael,” cried Gould, quite serious for the first time in his life, “you might give us a bit of bally sense for a chinge.”

“What was Dr. Warner talking about just before the first shot?” asked Moon sharply.
“The creature,” said Dr. Warner superciliously, “asked me, with characteristic rationality, whether it was my birthday.”

“And you answered, with characteristic swank,” cried Moon, shooting out a long lean finger, as rigid and arresting as the pistol of Smith, “that you didn’t keep your birthday.”

“Something like that,” assented the doctor.
“Then,” continued Moon, “he asked you why not, and you said it was because you didn’t see that birth was anything to rejoice over.
Agreed?
Now is there any one who doubts that our tale is true?”

There was a cold crash of stillness in the room; and Moon said, “Pax populi vox Dei; it is the silence of the people that is the voice of God.
Or in Dr. Pym’s more civilized language, it is up to him to open the next charge.
On this we claim an acquittal.”

It was about an hour later.
Dr. Cyrus Pym had remained for an unprecedented time with his eyes closed and his thumb and finger in the air.
It almost seemed as if he had been “struck so,” as the nurses say; and in the deathly silence Michael Moon felt forced to relieve the strain with some remark.
For the last half-hour or so the eminent criminologist had been explaining that science took the same view of offences against property as it did of offences against life.
“Most murder,” he had said, “is a variation of homicidal mania, and in the same way most theft is a version of kleptomania.
I cannot entertain any doubt that my learned friends opposite adequately con-ceive how this must involve a scheme of punishment more tol’rant and humane than the cruel methods of ancient codes.
They will doubtless exhibit consciousness of a chasm so eminently yawning, so thought-arresting, so—” It was here that he paused and indulged in the delicate gesture to which allusion has been made; and Michael could bear it no longer.
“Yes, yes,” he said impatiently, “we admit the chasm.
The old cruel codes accuse a man of theft and send him to prison for ten years.
The tolerant and humane ticket accuses him of nothing and sends him to prison for ever.
We pass the chasm.”

It was characteristic of the eminent Pym, in one of his trances of verbal fastidiousness, that he went on, unconscious not only of his opponent’s interruption, but even of his own pause.
“So stock-improving,” continued Dr. Cyrus Pym, “so fraught with real high hopes of the future.
Science therefore regards thieves, in the abstract, just as it regards murderers.
It regards them not as sinners to be punished for an arbitrary period, but as patients to be detained and cared for,” (his first two digits closed again as he hesitated)—“in short, for the required period.
But there is something special in the case we investigate here.
Kleptomania commonly con-joins itself—”

“I beg pardon,” said Michael; “I did not ask just now because, to tell the truth, I really thought Dr. Pym, though seemingly vertical, was enjoying well-earned slumber, with a pinch in his fingers of scentless and delicate dust.
But now that things are moving a little more, there is something I should really like to know.
I have hung on Dr. Pym’s lips, of course, with an interest that it were weak to call rapture, but I have so far been unable to form any conjecture about what the accused, in the present instance, is supposed to have been and gone and done.”

“If Mr.
Moon will have patience,” said Pym with dignity, “he will find that this was the very point to which my exposition was di-rected.
Kleptomania, I say, exhibits itself as a kind of physical attraction to certain defined materials; and it has been held (by no less a man than Harris) that this is the ultimate explanation of the strict specialism and vurry narrow professional outlook of most criminals.
One will have an irresistible physical impulsion towards pearl sleeve-links, while he passes over the most elegant and celebrated diamond sleeve-links, placed about in the most conspicuous locations.
Another will impede his flight with no less than forty-seven buttoned boots, while elastic-sided boots leave him cold, and even sarcastic.
The specialism of the criminal, I repeat, is a mark rather of insanity than of any brightness of business habits; but there is one kind of depredator to whom this principle is at first sight hard to apply.
I allude to our fellow-citizen the housebreaker.
“It has been maintained by some of our boldest young truth-seekers, that the eye of a burglar beyond the back-garden wall could hardly be caught and hypnotized by a fork that is insulated in a locked box under the butler’s bed.
They have thrown down the gauntlet to American science on this point.
They declare that diamond links are not left about in conspicuous locations in the haunts of the lower classes, as they were in the great test experiment of Calypso College.
We hope this experiment here will be an answer to that young ringing challenge, and will bring the burglar once more into line and union with his fellow criminals.”

Moon, whose face had gone through every phase of black bewilderment for five minutes past, suddenly lifted his hand and struck the table in explosive enlightenment.
“Oh, I see!” he cried; “you mean that Smith is a burglar.”

“I thought I made it quite ad’quately lucid,” said Mr. Pym, folding up his eyelids.
It was typical of this topsy-turvy private trial that all the eloquent extras, all the rhetoric or digression on either side, was exasperating and unintelligible to the other.
Moon could not make head or tail of the solemnity of a new civilization.
Pym could not make head or tail of the gaiety of an old one.
“All the cases in which Smith has figured as an expropriator,” continued the American doctor, “are cases of burglary.
Pursuing the same course as in the previous case, we select the indubitable instance from the rest, and we take the most correct cast-iron evidence.
I will now call on my colleague, Mr. Gould, to read a letter we have received from the earnest, unspotted Canon of Durham, Canon Hawkins.”

Mr. Moses Gould leapt up with his usual alacrity to read the letter from the earnest and unspotted Hawkins.
Moses Gould could imitate a farmyard well, Sir Henry Irving not so well, Marie Lloyd to a point of excellence, and the new motor horns in a manner that put him upon the platform of great artists.
But his imitation of a Canon of Durham was not convincing; indeed, the sense of the letter was so much obscured by the extraordinary leaps and gasps of his pronunciation that it is perhaps better to print it here as Moon read it when, a little later, it was handed across the table.
“Dear Sir,—I can scarcely feel surprise that the incident you mention, private as it was, should have filtered through our omnivorous journals to the mere populace; for the position I have since attained makes me, I conceive, a public character, and this was certainly the most extraordinary incident in a not uneventful and perhaps not an unimportant career.
I am by no means without experience in scenes of civil tumult.
I have faced many a political crisis in the old Primrose League days at Herne Bay, and, before I broke with the wilder set, have spent many a night at the Christian Social Union.
But this other experience was quite inconceivable.
I can only describe it as the letting loose of a place which it is not for me, as a clergyman, to mention.
“It occurred in the days when I was, for a short period, a curate at Hoxton; and the other curate, then my colleague, induced me to attend a meeting which he described, I must say profanely described, as calculated to promote the kingdom of God.
I found, on the contrary, that it consisted entirely of men in corduroys and greasy clothes whose manners were coarse and their opinions extreme.
“Of my colleague in question I wish to speak with the fullest respect and friendliness, and I will therefore say little.
No one can be more convinced than I of the evil of politics in the pulpit; and I never offer my congregation any advice about voting except in cases in which I feel strongly that they are likely to make an erroneous selection.
But, while I do not mean to touch at all upon political or social problems, I must say that for a clergyman to countenance, even in jest, such discredited nostrums of dissipated demagogues as Socialism or Radicalism partakes of the character of the betrayal of a sacred trust.
Far be it from me to say a word against the Reverend Raymond Percy, the colleague in question.
He was brilliant, I suppose, and to some apparently fascinating; but a clergyman who talks like a Socialist, wears his hair like a pianist, and behaves like an intoxicated person, will never rise in his profession, or even obtain the admiration of the good and wise.
Nor is it for me to utter my personal judgements of the appearance of the people in the hall.
Yet a glance round the room, revealing ranks of debased and envious faces—”

“Adopting,” said Moon explosively, for he was getting restive—“adopting the reverend gentleman’s favourite figure of logic, may I say that while tortures would not tear from me a whisper about his intellect, he is a blasted old jackass.”

“Really!” said Dr. Pym; “I protest.”

“You must keep quiet, Michael,” said Inglewood; “they have a right to read their story.”

“Chair!
Chair!
Chair!” cried Gould, rolling about exuberantly in his own; and Pym glanced for a moment towards the canopy which covered all the authority of the Court of Beacon.
“Oh, don’t wake the old lady,” said Moon, lowering his voice in a moody good-humour.
“I apologize.
I won’t interrupt again.”

Before the little eddy of interruption was ended the reading of the clergyman’s letter was already continuing.
“The proceedings opened with a speech from my colleague, of which I will say nothing.
It was deplorable.
Many of the audience were Irish, and showed the weakness of that impetuous people.
When gathered together into gangs and conspiracies they seem to lose altogether that lovable good-nature and readiness to accept anything one tells them which distinguishes them as individuals.”

With a slight start, Michael rose to his feet, bowed solemnly, and sat down again.
“These persons, if not silent, were at least applausive during the speech of Mr. Percy.
He descended to their level with witticisms about rent and a reserve of labour.
Confiscation, expropriation, arbitration, and such words with which I cannot soil my lips, recurred constantly.
Some hours afterward the storm broke.
I had been addressing the meeting for some time, pointing out the lack of thrift in the working classes, their insufficient attendance at evening service, their neglect of the Harvest Festival, and of many other things that might materially help them to improve their lot.
It was, I think, about this time that an extraordinary interruption occurred.
An enormous, powerful man, partly concealed with white plaster, arose in the middle of the hall, and offered (in a loud, roaring voice, like a bull’s) some observations which seemed to be in a foreign language.
Mr. Raymond Percy, my colleague, descended to his level by entering into a duel of repartee, in which he appeared to be the victor.
The meeting began to behave more respectfully for a little; yet before I had said twelve sentences more the rush was made for the platform.
The enormous plasterer, in particular, plunged towards us, shaking the earth like an elephant; and I really do not know what would have happened if a man equally large, but not quite so ill-dressed, had not jumped up also and held him away.
This other big man shouted a sort of speech to the mob as he was shoving them back.
I don’t know what he said, but, what with shouting and shoving and such horseplay, he got us out at a back door, while the wretched people went roaring down another passage.
“Then follows the truly extraordinary part of my story.
When he had got us outside, in a mean backyard of blistered grass leading into a lane with a very lonely-looking lamp-post, this giant addressed me as follows: ‘You’re well out of that, sir; now you’d better come along with me.
I want you to help me in an act of social justice, such as we’ve all been talking about.
Come along!’ And turning his big back abruptly, he led us down the lean old lane with the one lean old lamp-post, we scarcely knowing what to do but to follow him.
He had certainly helped us in a most difficult situation, and, as a gentleman, I could not treat such a benefactor with suspicion without grave grounds.
Such also was the view of my Socialistic colleague, who (with all his dreadful talk of arbitration) is a gentleman also.
In fact, he comes of the Staffordshire Percys, a branch of the old house and has the black hair and pale, clear-cut face of the whole family.
I cannot but refer it to vanity that he should heighten his personal advantages with black velvet or a red cross of considerable ostentation, and certainly—but I digress.
“A fog was coming up the street, and that last lost lamp-post faded behind us in a way that certainly depressed the mind.
The large man in front of us looked larger and larger in the haze.
He did not turn round, but he said with his huge back to us, ‘All that talking’s no good; we want a little practical Socialism.’

“‘I quite agree,’ said Percy; ‘but I always like to understand things in theory before I put them into practice.’

“‘Oh, you just leave that to me,’ said the practical Socialist, or whatever he was, with the most terrifying vagueness.
‘I have a way with me.
I’m a Permeator.’

“I could not imagine what he meant, but my companion laughed, so I was sufficiently reassured to continue the unaccountable journey for the present.
It led us through most singular ways; out of the lane, where we were already rather cramped, into a paved passage, at the end of which we passed through a wooden gate left open.
We then found ourselves, in the increasing darkness and vapour, crossing what appeared to be a beaten path across a kitchen garden.
I called out to the enormous person going on in front, but he answered obscurely that it was a short cut.
“I was just repeating my very natural doubt to my clerical companion when I was brought up against a short ladder, apparently leading to a higher level of road.
My thoughtless colleague ran up it so quickly that I could not do otherwise than follow as best I could.
The path on which I then planted my feet was quite unprecedentedly narrow.
I had never had to walk along a thoroughfare so exiguous.
Along one side of it grew what, in the dark and density of air, I first took to be some short, strong thicket of shrubs.
Then I saw that they were not short shrubs; they were the tops of tall trees.
I, an English gentleman and clergyman of the Church of England—I was walking along the top of a garden wall like a tom cat.
“I am glad to say that I stopped within my first five steps, and let loose my just reprobation, balancing myself as best I could all the time.
“‘It’s a right-of-way,’ declared my indefensible informant.
‘It’s closed to traffic once in a hundred years.’

“‘Mr.
Percy, Mr. Percy!’ I called out; ‘you are not going on with this blackguard?’

“‘Why, I think so,’ answered my unhappy colleague flippantly.
‘I think you and I are bigger blackguards than he is, whatever he is.’

“‘I am a burglar,’ explained the big creature quite calmly.
‘I am a member of the Fabian Society.
I take back the wealth stolen by the capitalist, not by sweeping civil war and revolution, but by reform fitted to the special occasion—here a little and there a little.
Do you see that fifth house along the terrace with the flat roof?
I’m permeating that one to-night.’

“‘Whether this is a crime or a joke,’ I cried, ‘I desire to be quit of it.’

“‘The ladder is just behind you,’ answered the creature with horrible courtesy; ‘and, before you go, do let me give you my card.’

“If I had had the presence of mind to show any proper spirit I should have flung it away, though any adequate gesture of the kind would have gravely affected my equilibrium upon the wall.
As it was, in the wildness of the moment, I put it in my waistcoat pocket, and, picking my way back by wall and ladder, landed in the respectable streets once more.
Not before, however, I had seen with my own eyes the two awful and lamentable facts— that the burglar was climbing up a slanting roof towards the chimneys, and that Raymond Percy (a priest of God and, what was worse, a gentleman) was crawling up after him.
I have never seen either of them since that day.
“In consequence of this soul-searching experience I severed my connection with the wild set.
I am far from saying that every member of the Christian Social Union must necessarily be a burglar.
I have no right to bring any such charge.
But it gave me a hint of what such courses may lead to in many cases; and I saw them no more.
“I have only to add that the photograph you enclose, taken by a Mr. Inglewood, is undoubtedly that of the burglar in question.
When I got home that night I looked at his card, and he was inscribed there under the name of Innocent Smith.—Yours faithfully,

“John Clement Hawkins.”

Moon merely went through the form of glancing at the paper.
He knew that the prosecutors could not have invented so heavy a document; that Moses Gould (for one) could no more write like a canon than he could read like one.
After handing it back he rose to open the defence on the burglary charge.
“We wish,” said Michael, “to give all reasonable facilities to the prosecution; especially as it will save the time of the whole court.
The latter object I shall once again pursue by passing over all those points of theory which are so dear to Dr. Pym.
I know how they are made.
Perjury is a variety of aphasia, leading a man to say one thing instead of another.
Forgery is a kind of writer’s cramp, forcing a man to write his uncle’s name instead of his own.
Piracy on the high seas is probably a form of sea-sickness.
But it is unnecessary for us to inquire into the causes of a fact which we deny.
Innocent Smith never did commit burglary at all.
“I should like to claim the power permitted by our previous arrangement, and ask the prosecution two or three questions.”

Dr. Cyrus Pym closed his eyes to indicate a courteous assent.
“In the first place,” continued Moon, “have you the date of Canon Hawkins’s last glimpse of Smith and Percy climbing up the walls and roofs?”

“Ho, yus!” called out Gould smartly.
“November thirteen, eighteen ninety-one.”

“Have you,” continued Moon, “identified the houses in Hoxton up which they climbed?”

“Must have been Ladysmith Terrace out of the highroad,” answered Gould with the same clockwork readiness.
“Well,” said Michael, cocking an eyebrow at him, “was there any burglary in that terrace that night?
Surely you could find that out.”

“There may well have been,” said the doctor primly, after a pause, “an unsuccessful one that led to no legalities.”

“Another question,” proceeded Michael.
“Canon Hawkins, in his blood-and-thunder boyish way, left off at the exciting moment.
Why don’t you produce the evidence of the other clergyman, who actually followed the burglar and presumably was present at the crime?”

Dr. Pym rose and planted the points of his fingers on the table, as he did when he was specially confident of the clearness of his reply.
“We have entirely failed,” he said, “to track the other clergyman, who seems to have melted into the ether after Canon Hawkins had seen him as-cending the gutters and the leads.
I am fully aware that this may strike many as sing’lar; yet, upon reflection, I think it will appear pretty natural to a bright thinker.
This Mr. Raymond Percy is admittedly, by the canon’s evidence, a minister of eccentric ways.
His con-nection with England’s proudest and fairest does not seemingly prevent a taste for the society of the real low-down.
On the other hand, the prisoner Smith is, by general agreement, a man of irr’sistible fascination.
I entertain no doubt that Smith led the Revered Percy into the crime and forced him to hide his head in the real crim’nal class.
That would fully account for his non-appearance, and the failure of all attempts to trace him.”

“It is impossible, then, to trace him?” asked Moon.
“Impossible,” repeated the specialist, shutting his eyes.
“You are sure it’s impossible?”

“Oh dry up, Michael,” cried Gould, irritably.
“We’d ’ave found ’im if we could, for you bet ’e saw the burglary.
Don’t YOU start looking for ’im.
Look for your own ’ead in the dustbin.
You’ll find that—after a bit,” and his voice died away in grumbling.
“Arthur,” directed Michael Moon, sitting down, “kindly read Mr. Raymond Percy’s letter to the court.”

“Wishing, as Mr.
Moon has said, to shorten the proceedings as much as possible,” began Inglewood, “I will not read the first part of the letter sent to us.
It is only fair to the prosecution to admit the account given by the second clergyman fully ratifies, as far as facts are concerned, that given by the first clergyman.
We concede, then, the canon’s story so far as it goes.
This must necessarily be valuable to the prosecutor and also convenient to the court.
I begin Mr. Percy’s letter, then, at the point when all three men were standing on the garden wall:—

“As I watched Hawkins wavering on the wall, I made up my own mind not to waver.
A cloud of wrath was on my brain, like the cloud of copper fog on the houses and gardens round.
My decision was violent and simple; yet the thoughts that led up to it were so complicated and contradictory that I could not retrace them now.
I knew Hawkins was a kind, innocent gentleman; and I would have given ten pounds for the pleasure of kicking him down the road.
That God should allow good people to be as bestially stupid as that— rose against me like a towering blasphemy.
“At Oxford, I fear, I had the artistic temperament rather badly; and artists love to be limited.
I liked the church as a pretty pattern; discipline was mere decoration.
I delighted in mere divisions of time; I liked eating fish on Friday.
But then I like fish; and the fast was made for men who like meat.
Then I came to Hoxton and found men who had fasted for five hundred years; men who had to gnaw fish because they could not get meat—and fish-bones when they could not get fish.
As too many British officers treat the army as a review, so I had treated the Church Militant as if it were the Church Pageant.
Hoxton cures that.
Then I realized that for eighteen hundred years the Church Militant had not been a pageant, but a riot—and a suppressed riot.
There, still living patiently in Hoxton, were the people to whom the tremendous promises had been made.
In the face of that I had to become a revolutionary if I was to continue to be religious.
In Hoxton one cannot be a conservative without being also an atheist— and a pessimist.
Nobody but the devil could want to conserve Hoxton.
“On the top of all this comes Hawkins.
If he had cursed all the Hoxton men, excommunicated them, and told them they were going to hell, I should have rather admired him.
If he had ordered them all to be burned in the market-place, I should still have had that patience that all good Christians have with the wrongs inflicted on other people.
But there is no priestcraft about Hawkins—nor any other kind of craft.
He is as perfectly incapable of being a priest as he is of being a carpenter or a cabman or a gardener or a plasterer.
He is a perfect gentleman; that is his complaint.
He does not impose his creed, but simply his class.
He never said a word of religion in the whole of his damnable address.
He simply said all the things his brother, the major, would have said.
A voice from heaven assures me that he has a brother, and that this brother is a major.
“When this helpless aristocrat had praised cleanliness in the body and convention in the soul to people who could hardly keep body and soul together, the stampede against our platform began.
I took part in his undeserved rescue, I followed his obscure deliverer, until (as I have said) we stood together on the wall above the dim gardens, already clouding with fog.
Then I looked at the curate and at the burglar, and decided, in a spasm of inspiration, that the burglar was the better man of the two.
The burglar seemed quite as kind and human as the curate was— and he was also brave and self-reliant, which the curate was not.
I knew there was no virtue in the upper class, for I belong to it myself; I knew there was not so very much in the lower class, for I had lived with it a long time.
Many old texts about the despised and persecuted came back to my mind, and I thought that the saints might well be hidden in the criminal class.
About the time Hawkins let himself down the ladder I was crawling up a low, sloping, blue-slate roof after the large man, who went leaping in front of me like a gorilla.
“This upward scramble was short, and we soon found ourselves tramping along a broad road of flat roofs, broader than many big thoroughfares, with chimney-pots here and there that seemed in the haze as bulky as small forts.
The asphyxiation of the fog seemed to increase the somewhat swollen and morbid anger under which my brain and body laboured.
The sky and all those things that are commonly clear seemed overpowered by sinister spirits.
Tall spectres with turbans of vapour seemed to stand higher than the sun or moon, eclipsing both.
I thought dimly of illustrations to the ‘Arabian Nights’ on brown paper with rich but sombre tints, showing genii gathering round the Seal of Solomon.
By the way, what was the Seal of Solomon?
Nothing to do with sealing-wax really, I suppose; but my muddled fancy felt the thick clouds as being of that heavy and clinging substance, of strong opaque colour, poured out of boiling pots and stamped into monstrous emblems.
“The first effect of the tall turbaned vapours was that discoloured look of pea-soup or coffee brown of which Londoners commonly speak.
But the scene grew subtler with familiarity.
We stood above the average of the housetops and saw something of that thing called smoke, which in great cities creates the strange thing called fog.
Beneath us rose a forest of chimney-pots.
And there stood in every chimney-pot, as if it were a flower-pot, a brief shrub or a tall tree of coloured vapour.
The colours of the smoke were various; for some chimneys were from firesides and some from factories, and some again from mere rubbish heaps.
And yet, though the tints were all varied, they all seemed unnatural, like fumes from a witch’s pot.
It was as if the shameful and ugly shapes growing shapeless in the cauldron sent up each its separate spurt of steam, coloured according to the fish or flesh consumed.
Here, aglow from underneath, were dark red clouds, such as might drift from dark jars of sacrificial blood; there the vapour was dark indigo gray, like the long hair of witches steeped in the hell-broth.
In another place the smoke was of an awful opaque ivory yellow, such as might be the disembodiment of one of their old, leprous waxen images.
But right across it ran a line of bright, sinister, sulphurous green, as clear and crooked as Arabic—”

Mr. Moses Gould once more attempted the arrest of the ’bus.
He was understood to suggest that the reader should shorten the proceedings by leaving out all the adjectives.
Mrs. Duke, who had woken up, observed that she was sure it was all very nice, and the decision was duly noted down by Moses with a blue, and by Michael with a red pencil.
Inglewood then resumed the reading of the document.
“Then I read the writing of the smoke.
Smoke was like the modern city that makes it; it is not always dull or ugly, but it is always wicked and vain.
“Modern England was like a cloud of smoke; it could carry all colours, but it could leave nothing but a stain.
It was our weakness and not our strength that put a rich refuse in the sky.
These were the rivers of our vanity pouring into the void.
We had taken the sacred circle of the whirlwind, and looked down on it, and seen it as a whirlpool.
And then we had used it as a sink.
It was a good symbol of the mutiny in my own mind.
Only our worst things were going to heaven.
Only our criminals could still ascend like angels.
“As my brain was blinded with such emotions, my guide stopped by one of the big chimney-pots that stood at the regular intervals like lamp-posts along that uplifted and aerial highway.
He put his heavy hand upon it, and for the moment I thought he was merely leaning on it, tired with his steep scramble along the terrace.
So far as I could guess from the abysses, full of fog on either side, and the veiled lights of red brown and old gold glowing through them now and again, we were on the top of one of those long, consecutive, and genteel rows of houses which are still to be found lifting their heads above poorer districts, the remains of some rage of optimism in earlier speculative builders.
Probably enough, they were entirely untenanted, or tenanted only by such small clans of the poor as gather also in the old emptied palaces of Italy.
Indeed, some little time later, when the fog had lifted a little, I discovered that we were walking round a semi-circle of crescent which fell away below us into one flat square or wide street below another, like a giant stairway, in a manner not unknown in the eccentric building of London, and looking like the last ledges of the land.
But a cloud sealed the giant stairway as yet.
“My speculations about the sullen skyscape, however, were interrupted by something as unexpected as the moon falling from the sky.
Instead of my burglar lifting his hand from the chimney he leaned on, he leaned on it a little more heavily, and the whole chimney-pot turned over like the opening top of an inkstand.
I remembered the short ladder leaning against the low wall and felt sure he had arranged his criminal approach long before.
“The collapse of the big chimney-pot ought to have been the culmination of my chaotic feelings; but, to tell the truth, it produced a sudden sense of comedy and even of comfort.
I could not recall what connected this abrupt bit of housebreaking with some quaint but still kindly fancies.
Then I remembered the delightful and uproarious scenes of roofs and chimneys in the harlequinades of my childhood, and was darkly and quite irrationally comforted by a sense of unsubstantiality in the scene, as if the houses were of lath and paint and pasteboard, and were only meant to be tumbled in and out of by policemen and pantaloons.
The law-breaking of my companion seemed not only seriously excusable, but even comically excusable.
Who were all these pompous preposterous people with their footmen and their foot-scrapers, their chimney-pots and their chimney-pot hats, that they should prevent a poor clown from getting sausages if he wanted them?
One would suppose that property was a serious thing.
I had reached, as it were, a higher level of that mountainous and vapourous visions, the heaven of a higher levity.
“My guide had jumped down into the dark cavity revealed by the displaced chimney-pot.
He must have landed at a level considerably lower, for, tall as he was, nothing but his weirdly tousled head remained visible.
Something again far off, and yet familiar, pleased me about this way of invading the houses of men.
I thought of little chimney-sweeps, and ‘The Water Babies;’ but I decided that it was not that.
Then I remembered what it was that made me connect such topsy-turvy trespass with ideas quite opposite to the idea of crime.
Christmas Eve, of course, and Santa Claus coming down the chimney.
“Almost at the same instant the hairy head disappeared into the black hole; but I heard a voice calling to me from below.
A second or two afterwards, the hairy head reappeared; it was dark against the more fiery part of the fog, and nothing could be spelt of its expression, but its voice called on me to follow with that enthusiastic impatience proper only among old friends.
I jumped into the gulf, and as blindly as Curtius, for I was still thinking of Santa Claus and the traditional virtue of such vertical entrance.
“In every well-appointed gentleman’s house, I reflected, there was the front door for the gentlemen, and the side door for the tradesmen; but there was also the top door for the gods.
The chimney is, so to speak, the underground passage between earth and heaven.
By this starry tunnel Santa Claus manages—like the skylark— to be true to the kindred points of heaven and home.
Nay, owing to certain conventions, and a widely distributed lack of courage for climbing, this door was, perhaps, little used.
But Santa Claus’s door was really the front door: it was the door fronting the universe.
“I thought this as I groped my way across the black garret, or loft below the roof, and scrambled down the squat ladder that let us down into a yet larger loft below.
Yet it was not till I was half-way down the ladder that I suddenly stood still, and thought for an instant of retracing all my steps, as my companion had retraced them from the beginning of the garden wall.
The name of Santa Claus had suddenly brought me back to my senses.
I remembered why Santa Claus came, and why he was welcome.
“I was brought up in the propertied classes, and with all their horror of offences against property.
I had heard all the regular denunciations of robbery, both right and wrong; I had read the Ten Commandments in church a thousand times.
And then and there, at the age of thirty-four, half-way down a ladder in a dark room in the bodily act of burglar, I saw suddenly for the first time that theft, after all, is really wrong.
“It was too late to turn back, however, and I followed the strangely soft footsteps of my huge companion across the lower and larger loft, till he knelt down on a part of the bare flooring and, after a few fumbling efforts, lifted a sort of trapdoor.
This released a light from below, and we found ourselves looking down into a lamp-lit sitting room, of the sort that in large houses often leads out of a bedroom, and is an adjunct to it.
Light thus breaking from beneath our feet like a soundless explosion, showed that the trapdoor just lifted was clogged with dust and rust, and had doubtless been long disused until the advent of my enterprising friend.
But I did not look at this long, for the sight of the shining room underneath us had an almost unnatural attractiveness.
To enter a modern interior at so strange an angle, by so forgotten a door, was an epoch in one’s psychology.
It was like having found a fourth dimension.
“My companion dropped from the aperture into the room so suddenly and soundlessly, that I could do nothing but follow him; though, for lack of practice in crime, I was by no means soundless.
Before the echo of my boots had died away, the big burglar had gone quickly to the door, half opened it, and stood looking down the staircase and listening.
Then, leaving the door still half open, he came back into the middle of the room, and ran his roving blue eye round its furniture and ornament.
The room was comfortably lined with books in that rich and human way that makes the walls seem alive; it was a deep and full, but slovenly, bookcase, of the sort that is constantly ransacked for the purposes of reading in bed.
One of those stunted German stoves that look like red goblins stood in a corner, and a sideboard of walnut wood with closed doors in its lower part.
There were three windows, high but narrow.
After another glance round, my housebreaker plucked the walnut doors open and rummaged inside.
He found nothing there, apparently, except an extremely handsome cut-glass decanter, containing what looked like port.
Somehow the sight of the thief returning with this ridiculous little luxury in his hand woke within me once more all the revelation and revulsion I had felt above.
“‘Don’t do it!’ I cried quite incoherently, ‘Santa Claus—’

“‘Ah,’ said the burglar, as he put the decanter on the table and stood looking at me, ‘you’ve thought about that, too.’

“‘I can’t express a millionth part of what I’ve thought of,’ I cried, ‘but it’s something like this... oh, can’t you see it?
Why are children not afraid of Santa Claus, though he comes like a thief in the night?
He is permitted secrecy, trespass, almost treachery—because there are more toys where he has been.
What should we feel if there were less?
Down what chimney from hell would come the goblin that should take away the children’s balls and dolls while they slept?
Could a Greek tragedy be more gray and cruel than that daybreak and awakening?
Dog-stealer, horse-stealer, man-stealer—can you think of anything so base as a toy-stealer?’

“The burglar, as if absently, took a large revolver from his pocket and laid it on the table beside the decanter, but still kept his blue reflective eyes fixed on my face.
“‘Man!’ I said, ‘all stealing is toy-stealing.
That’s why it’s really wrong.
The goods of the unhappy children of men should be really respected because of their worthlessness.
I know Naboth’s vineyard is as painted as Noah’s Ark.
I know Nathan’s ewe-lamb is really a woolly baa-lamb on a wooden stand.
That is why I could not take them away.
I did not mind so much, as long as I thought of men’s things as their valuables; but I dare not put a hand upon their vanities.’

“After a moment I added abruptly, ‘Only saints and sages ought to be robbed.
They may be stripped and pillaged; but not the poor little worldly people of the things that are their poor little pride.’

“He set out two wineglasses from the cupboard, filled them both, and lifted one of them with a salutation towards his lips.
“‘Don’t do it!’ I cried.
‘It might be the last bottle of some rotten vintage or other.
The master of this house may be quite proud of it.
Don’t you see there’s something sacred in the silliness of such things?’

“‘It’s not the last bottle,’ answered my criminal calmly; ‘there’s plenty more in the cellar.’

“‘You know the house, then?’ I said.
“‘Too well,’ he answered, with a sadness so strange as to have something eerie about it.
‘I am always trying to forget what I know— and to find what I don’t know.’ He drained his glass.
‘Besides,’ he added, ‘it will do him good.’

“‘What will do him good?’

“‘The wine I’m drinking,’ said the strange person.
“‘Does he drink too much, then?’ I inquired.
“‘No,’ he answered, ‘not unless I do.’

“‘Do you mean,’ I demanded, ‘that the owner of this house approves of all you do?’

“‘God forbid,’ he answered; ‘but he has to do the same.’

“The dead face of the fog looking in at all three windows unreasonably increased a sense of riddle, and even terror, about this tall, narrow house we had entered out of the sky.
I had once more the notion about the gigantic genii— I fancied that enormous Egyptian faces, of the dead reds and yellows of Egypt, were staring in at each window of our little lamp-lit room as at a lighted stage of marionettes.
My companion went on playing with the pistol in front of him, and talking with the same rather creepy confidentialness.
“‘I am always trying to find him—to catch him unawares.
I come in through skylights and trapdoors to find him; but whenever I find him—he is doing what I am doing.’

“I sprang to my feet with a thrill of fear.
‘There is some one coming,’ I cried, and my cry had something of a shriek in it.
Not from the stairs below, but along the passage from the inner bedchamber (which seemed somehow to make it more alarming), footsteps were coming nearer.
I am quite unable to say what mystery, or monster, or double, I expected to see when the door was pushed open from within.
I am only quite certain that I did not expect to see what I did see.
“Framed in the open doorway stood, with an air of great serenity, a rather tall young woman, definitely though indefinably artistic— her dress the colour of spring and her hair of autumn leaves, with a face which, though still comparatively young, conveyed experience as well as intelligence.
All she said was, ‘I didn’t hear you come in.’

“‘I came in another way,’ said the Permeator, somewhat vaguely.
‘I’d left my latchkey at home.’

“I got to my feet in a mixture of politeness and mania.
‘I’m really very sorry,’ I cried.
‘I know my position is irregular.
Would you be so obliging as to tell me whose house this is?’

“‘Mine,’ said the burglar, ‘May I present you to my wife?’

“I doubtfully, and somewhat slowly, resumed my seat; and I did not get out of it till nearly morning.
Mrs. Smith (such was the prosaic name of this far from prosaic household) lingered a little, talking slightly and pleasantly.
She left on my mind the impression of a certain odd mixture of shyness and sharpness; as if she knew the world well, but was still a little harmlessly afraid of it.
Perhaps the possession of so jumpy and incalculable a husband had left her a little nervous.
Anyhow, when she had retired to the inner chamber once more, that extraordinary man poured forth his apologia and autobiography over the dwindling wine.
“He had been sent to Cambridge with a view to a mathematical and scientific, rather than a classical or literary, career.
A starless nihilism was then the philosophy of the schools; and it bred in him a war between the members and the spirit, but one in which the members were right.
While his brain accepted the black creed, his very body rebelled against it.
As he put it, his right hand taught him terrible things.
As the authorities of Cambridge University put it, unfortunately, it had taken the form of his right hand flourishing a loaded firearm in the very face of a distinguished don, and driving him to climb out of the window and cling to a waterspout.
He had done it solely because the poor don had professed in theory a preference for non-existence.
For this very unacademic type of argument he had been sent down.
Vomiting as he was with revulsion, from the pessimism that had quailed under his pistol, he made himself a kind of fanatic of the joy of life.
He cut across all the associations of serious-minded men.
He was gay, but by no means careless.
His practical jokes were more in earnest than verbal ones.
Though not an optimist in the absurd sense of maintaining that life is all beer and skittles, he did really seem to maintain that beer and skittles are the most serious part of it.
‘What is more immortal,’ he would cry, ‘than love and war?
Type of all desire and joy—beer.
Type of all battle and conquest—skittles.’

“There was something in him of what the old world called the solemnity of revels—when they spoke of ‘solemnizing’ a mere masquerade or wedding banquet.
Nevertheless he was not a mere pagan any more than he was a mere practical joker.
His eccentricities sprang from a static fact of faith, in itself mystical, and even childlike and Christian.
“‘I don’t deny,’ he said, ‘that there should be priests to remind men that they will one day die.
I only say that at certain strange epochs it is necessary to have another kind of priests, called poets, actually to remind men that they are not dead yet.
The intellectuals among whom I moved were not even alive enough to fear death.
They hadn’t enough blood in them to be cowards.
Until a pistol barrel was poked under their very noses they never even knew they had been born.
For ages looking up an eternal perspective it might be true that life is a learning to die.
But for these little white rats it was just as true that death was their only chance of learning to live.’

“His creed of wonder was Christian by this absolute test; that he felt it continually slipping from himself as much as from others.
He had the same pistol for himself, as Brutus said of the dagger.
He continually ran preposterous risks of high precipice or headlong speed to keep alive the mere conviction that he was alive.
He treasured up trivial and yet insane details that had once reminded him of the awful subconscious reality.
When the don had hung on the stone gutter, the sight of his long dangling legs, vibrating in the void like wings, somehow awoke the naked satire of the old definition of man as a two-legged animal without feathers.
The wretched professor had been brought into peril by his head, which he had so elaborately cultivated, and only saved by his legs, which he had treated with coldness and neglect.
Smith could think of no other way of announcing or recording this, except to send a telegram to an old friend (by this time a total stranger) to say that he had just seen a man with two legs; and that the man was alive.
“The uprush of his released optimism burst into stars like a rocket when he suddenly fell in love.
He happened to be shooting a high and very headlong weir in a canoe, by way of proving to himself that he was alive; and he soon found himself involved in some doubt about the continuance of the fact.
What was worse, he found he had equally jeopardized a harmless lady alone in a rowing-boat, and one who had provoked death by no professions of philosophic negation.
He apologized in wild gasps through all his wild wet labours to bring her to the shore, and when he had done so at last, he seems to have proposed to her on the bank.
Anyhow, with the same impetuosity with which he had nearly murdered her, he completely married her; and she was the lady in green to whom I had recently said ‘good-night.’

“They had settled down in these high narrow houses near Highbury.
Perhaps, indeed, that is hardly the word.
One could strictly say that Smith was married, that he was very happily married, that he not only did not care for any woman but his wife, but did not seem to care for any place but his home; but perhaps one could hardly say that he had settled down.
‘I am a very domestic fellow,’ he explained with gravity, ‘and have often come in through a broken window rather than be late for tea.’

“He lashed his soul with laughter to prevent it falling asleep.
He lost his wife a series of excellent servants by knocking at the door as a total stranger, and asking if Mr. Smith lived there and what kind of a man he was.
The London general servant is not used to the master indulging in such transcendental ironies.
And it was found impossible to explain to her that he did it in order to feel the same interest in his own affairs that he always felt in other people’s.
“‘I know there’s a fellow called Smith,’ he said in his rather weird way, ‘living in one of the tall houses in this terrace.
I know he is really happy, and yet I can never catch him at it.’

“Sometimes he would, of a sudden, treat his wife with a kind of paralyzed politeness, like a young stranger struck with love at first sight.
Sometimes he would extend this poetic fear to the very furniture; would seem to apologize to the chair he sat on, and climb the staircase as cautiously as a cragsman, to renew in himself the sense of their skeleton of reality.
Every stair is a ladder and every stool a leg, he said.
And at other times he would play the stranger exactly in the opposite sense, and would enter by another way, so as to feel like a thief and a robber.
He would break and violate his own home, as he had done with me that night.
It was near morning before I could tear myself from this queer confidence of the Man Who Would Not Die, and as I shook hands with him on the doorstep the last load of fog was lifting, and rifts of daylight revealed the stairway of irregular street levels that looked like the end of the world.
“It will be enough for many to say that I had passed a night with a maniac.
What other term, it will be said, could be applied to such a being?
A man who reminds himself that he is married by pretending not to be married!
A man who tries to covet his own goods instead of his neighbor’s!
On this I have but one word to say, and I feel it of my honour to say it, though no one understands.
I believe the maniac was one of those who do not merely come, but are sent; sent like a great gale upon ships by Him who made His angels winds and His messengers a flaming fire.
This, at least, I know for certain.
Whether such men have laughed or wept, we have laughed at their laughter as much as at their weeping.
Whether they cursed or blessed the world, they have never fitted it.
It is true that men have shrunk from the sting of a great satirist as if from the sting of an adder.
But it is equally true that men flee from the embrace of a great optimist as from the embrace of a bear.
Nothing brings down more curses than a real benediction.
For the goodness of good things, like the badness of bad things, is a prodigy past speech; it is to be pictured rather than spoken.
We shall have gone deeper than the deeps of heaven and grown older than the oldest angels before we feel, even in its first faint vibrations, the everlasting violence of that double passion with which God hates and loves the world.—I am, yours faithfully, “Raymond Percy.”

“Oh, ’oly, ’oly, ’oly!” said Mr. Moses Gould.
The instant he had spoken all the rest knew they had been in an almost religious state of submission and assent.
Something had bound them together; something in the sacred tradition of the last two words of the letter; something also in the touching and boyish embarrassment with which Inglewood had read them— for he had all the thin-skinned reverence of the agnostic.
Moses Gould was as good a fellow in his way as ever lived; far kinder to his family than more refined men of pleasure, simple and steadfast in his admiration, a thoroughly wholesome animal and a thoroughly genuine character.
But wherever there is conflict, crises come in which any soul, personal or racial, unconsciously turns on the world the most hateful of its hundred faces.
English reverence, Irish mysticism, American idealism, looked up and saw on the face of Moses a certain smile.
It was that smile of the Cynic Triumphant, which has been the tocsin for many a cruel riot in Russian villages or mediaeval towns.
“Oh, ’oly, ’oly, ’oly!” said Moses Gould.
Finding that this was not well received, he explained further, exuberance deepening on his dark exuberant features.
“Always fun to see a bloke swallow a wasp when ’e’s corfin’ up a fly,” he said pleasantly.
“Don’t you see you’ve bunged up old Smith anyhow.
If this parson’s tale’s O.K.—why, Smith is ’ot.
’E’s pretty ’ot.
We find him elopin’ with Miss Gray (best respects!)
in a cab.
Well, what abart this Mrs. Smith the curate talks of, with her blarsted shyness—transmigogrified into a blighted sharpness?
Miss Gray ain’t been very sharp, but I reckon she’ll be pretty shy.”

“Don’t be a brute,” growled Michael Moon.
None could lift their eyes to look at Mary; but Inglewood sent a glance along the table at Innocent Smith.
He was still bowed above his paper toys, and a wrinkle was on his forehead that might have been worry or shame.
He carefully plucked out one corner of a complicated paper and tucked it in elsewhere; then the wrinkle vanished and he looked relieved.
Chapter III The Round Road; or, the Desertion Charge

Pym rose with sincere embarrassment; for he was an American, and his respect for ladies was real, and not at all scientific.
“Ignoring,” he said, “the delicate and considerable knightly protests that have been called forth by my colleague’s native sense of oration, and apologizing to all for whom our wild search for truth seems unsuitable to the grand ruins of a feudal land, I still think my colleague’s question by no means devoid of rel’vancy.
The last charge against the accused was one of burglary; the next charge on the paper is of bigamy and desertion.
It does without question appear that the defence, in aspiring to rebut this last charge, have really admitted the next.
Either Innocent Smith is still under a charge of attempted burglary, or else that is exploded; but he is pretty well fixed for attempted bigamy.
It all depends on what view we take of the alleged letter from Curate Percy.
Under these conditions I feel justified in claiming my right to questions.
May I ask how the defence got hold of the letter from Curate Percy?
Did it come direct from the prisoner?”

“We have had nothing direct from the prisoner,” said Moon quietly.
“The few documents which the defence guarantees came to us from another quarter.”

“From what quarter?” asked Dr. Pym.
“If you insist,” answered Moon, “we had them from Miss Gray.”

Dr. Cyrus Pym quite forgot to close his eyes, and, instead, opened them very wide.
“Do you really mean to say,” he said, “that Miss Gray was in possession of this document testifying to a previous Mrs. Smith?”

“Quite so,” said Inglewood, and sat down.
The doctor said something about infatuation in a low and painful voice, and then with visible difficulty continued his opening remarks.
“Unfortunately the tragic truth revealed by Curate Percy’s narrative is only too crushingly confirmed by other and shocking documents in our own possession.
Of these the principal and most certain is the testimony of Innocent Smith’s gardener, who was present at the most dramatic and eye-opening of his many acts of marital infidelity.
Mr. Gould, the gardener, please.”

Mr. Gould, with his tireless cheerfulness, arose to present the gardener.
That functionary explained that he had served Mr. and Mrs. Innocent Smith when they had a little house on the edge of Croydon.
From the gardener’s tale, with its many small allusions, Inglewood grew certain he had seen the place.
It was one of those corners of town or country that one does not forget, for it looked like a frontier.
The garden hung very high above the lane, and its end was steep and sharp, like a fortress.
Beyond was a roll of real country, with a white path sprawling across it, and the roots, boles, and branches of great gray trees writhing and twisting against the sky.
But as if to assert that the lane itself was suburban, were sharply relieved against that gray and tossing upland a lamp-post painted a peculiar yellow-green and a red pillar-box that stood exactly at the corner.
Inglewood was sure of the place; he had passed it twenty times in his constitutionals on the bicycle; he had always dimly felt it was a place where something might occur.
But it gave him quite a shiver to feel that the face of his frightful friend or enemy Smith might at any time have appeared over the garden bushes above.
The gardener’s account, unlike the curate’s, was quite free from decorative adjectives, however many he may have uttered privately when writing it.
He simply said that on a particular morning Mr. Smith came out and began to play about with a rake, as he often did.
Sometimes he would tickle the nose of his eldest child (he had two children); sometimes he would hook the rake on to the branch of a tree, and hoist himself up with horrible gymnastic jerks, like those of a giant frog in its final agony.
Never, apparently, did he think of putting the rake to any of its proper uses, and the gardener, in consequence, treated his actions with coldness and brevity.
But the gardener was certain that on one particular morning in October he (the gardener) had come round the corner of the house carrying the hose, had seen Mr. Smith standing on the lawn in a striped red and white jacket (which might have been his smoking-jacket, but was quite as like a part of his pyjamas), and had heard him then and there call out to his wife, who was looking out of the bedroom window on to the garden, these decisive and very loud expressions—

“I won’t stay here any longer.
I’ve got another wife and much better children a long way from here.
My other wife’s got redder hair than yours, and my other garden’s got a much finer situation; and I’m going off to them.”

With these words, apparently, he sent the rake flying far up into the sky, higher than many could have shot an arrow, and caught it again.
Then he cleared the hedge at a leap and alighted on his feet down in the lane below, and set off up the road without even a hat.
Much of the picture was doubtless supplied by Inglewood’s accidental memory of the place.
He could see with his mind’s eye that big bare-headed figure with the ragged rake swaggering up the crooked woodland road, and leaving lamp-post and pillar-box behind.
But the gardener, on his own account, was quite prepared to swear to the public confession of bigamy, to the temporary disappearance of the rake in the sky, and the final disappearance of the man up the road.
Moreover, being a local man, he could swear that, beyond some local rumours that Smith had embarked on the south-eastern coast, nothing was known of him again.
This impression was somewhat curiously clinched by Michael Moon in the few but clear phrases in which he opened the defence upon the third charge.
So far from denying that Smith had fled from Croydon and disappeared on the Continent, he seemed prepared to prove all this on his own account.
“I hope you are not so insular,” he said, “that you will not respect the word of a French innkeeper as much as that of an English gardener.
By Mr. Inglewood’s favour we will hear the French innkeeper.”

Before the company had decided the delicate point Inglewood was already reading the account in question.
It was in French.
It seemed to them to run something like this:—

“Sir,—Yes; I am Durobin of Durobin’s Cafe on the sea-front at Gras, rather north of Dunquerque.
I am willing to write all I know of the stranger out of the sea.
“I have no sympathy with eccentrics or poets.
A man of sense looks for beauty in things deliberately intended to be beautiful, such as a trim flower-bed or an ivory statuette.
One does not permit beauty to pervade one’s whole life, just as one does not pave all the roads with ivory or cover all the fields with geraniums.
My faith, but we should miss the onions!
“But whether I read things backwards through my memory, or whether there are indeed atmospheres of psychology which the eye of science cannot as yet pierce, it is the humiliating fact that on that particular evening I felt like a poet—like any little rascal of a poet who drinks absinthe in the mad Montmartre.
“Positively the sea itself looked like absinthe, green and bitter and poisonous.
I had never known it look so unfamiliar before.
In the sky was that early and stormy darkness that is so depressing to the mind, and the wind blew shrilly round the little lonely coloured kiosk where they sell the newspapers, and along the sand-hills by the shore.
There I saw a fishing-boat with a brown sail standing in silently from the sea.
It was already quite close, and out of it clambered a man of monstrous stature, who came wading to shore with the water not up to his knees, though it would have reached the hips of many men.
He leaned on a long rake or pole, which looked like a trident, and made him look like a Triton.
Wet as he was, and with strips of seaweed clinging to him, he walked across to my cafe, and, sitting down at a table outside, asked for cherry brandy, a liqueur which I keep, but is seldom demanded.
Then the monster, with great politeness, invited me to partake of a vermouth before my dinner, and we fell into conversation.
He had apparently crossed from Kent by a small boat got at a private bargain because of some odd fancy he had for passing promptly in an easterly direction, and not waiting for any of the official boats.
He was, he somewhat vaguely explained, looking for a house.
When I naturally asked him where the house was, he answered that he did not know; it was on an island; it was somewhere to the east; or, as he expressed it with a hazy and yet impatient gesture, ‘over there.’

“I asked him how, if he did not know the place, he would know it when he saw it.
Here he suddenly ceased to be hazy, and became alarmingly minute.
He gave a description of the house detailed enough for an auctioneer.
I have forgotten nearly all the details except the last two, which were that the lamp-post was painted green, and that there was a red pillar-box at the corner.
“‘A red pillar-box!’ I cried in astonishment.
‘Why, the place must be in England!’

“‘I had forgotten,’ he said, nodding heavily.
‘That is the island’s name.’

“‘But, _nom du nom_,’ I cried testily, ‘you’ve just come from England, my boy.’

“‘They SAID it was England,’ said my imbecile, conspiratorially.
‘They said it was Kent.
But Kentish men are such liars one can’t believe anything they say.’

“‘Monsieur,’ I said, ‘you must pardon me.
I am elderly, and the _fumisteries_ of the young men are beyond me.
I go by common sense, or, at the largest, by that extension of applied common sense called science.’

“‘Science!’ cried the stranger.
‘There is only one good thing science ever discovered—a good thing, good tidings of great joy— that the world is round.’

“I told him with civility that his words conveyed no impression to my intelligence.
‘I mean,’ he said, ‘that going right round the world is the shortest way to where you are already.’

“‘Is it not even shorter,’ I asked, ‘to stop where you are?’

“‘No, no, no!’ he cried emphatically.
‘That way is long and very weary.
At the end of the world, at the back of the dawn, I shall find the wife I really married and the house that is really mine.
And that house will have a greener lamp-post and a redder pillar-box.
Do you,’ he asked with a sudden intensity, ‘do you never want to rush out of your house in order to find it?’

“‘No, I think not,’ I replied; ‘reason tells a man from the first to adapt his desires to the probable supply of life.
I remain here, content to fulfil the life of man.
All my interests are here, and most of my friends, and—’

“‘And yet,’ he cried, starting to his almost terrific height, ‘you made the French Revolution!’

“‘Pardon me,’ I said, ‘I am not quite so elderly.
A relative perhaps.’

“‘I mean your sort did!’ exclaimed this personage.
‘Yes, your damned smug, settled, sensible sort made the French Revolution.
Oh!
I know some say it was no good, and you’re just back where you were before.
Why, blast it all, that’s just where we all want to be—back where we were before!
That is revolution—going right round!
Every revolution, like a repentance, is a return.’

“He was so excited that I waited till he had taken his seat again, and then said something indifferent and soothing; but he struck the tiny table with his colossal fist and went on.
“‘I am going to have a revolution, not a French Revolution, but an English Revolution.
God has given to each tribe its own type of mutiny.
The Frenchmen march against the citadel of the city together; the Englishman marches to the outskirts of the city, and alone.
But I am going to turn the world upside down, too.
I’m going to turn myself upside down.
I’m going to walk upside down in the cursed upsidedownland of the Antipodes, where trees and men hang head downward in the sky.
But my revolution, like yours, like the earth’s, will end up in the holy, happy place— the celestial, incredible place—the place where we were before.’

“With these remarks, which can scarcely be reconciled with reason, he leapt from the seat and strode away into the twilight, swinging his pole and leaving behind him an excessive payment, which also pointed to some loss of mental balance.
This is all I know of the episode of the man landed from the fishing-boat, and I hope it may serve the interests of justice.— Accept, Sir, the assurances of the very high consideration, with which I have the honour to be your obedient servant, “Jules Durobin.”

“The next document in our dossier,” continued Inglewood, “comes from the town of Crazok, in the central plains of Russia, and runs as follows:—

“Sir,—My name is Paul Nickolaiovitch: I am the stationmaster at the station near Crazok.
The great trains go by across the plains taking people to China, but very few people get down at the platform where I have to watch.
This makes my life rather lonely, and I am thrown back much upon the books I have.
But I cannot discuss these very much with my neighbours, for enlightened ideas have not spread in this part of Russia so much as in other parts.
Many of the peasants round here have never heard of Bernard Shaw.
“I am a Liberal, and do my best to spread Liberal ideas; but since the failure of the revolution this has been even more difficult.
The revolutionists committed many acts contrary to the pure principles of humanitarianism, with which indeed, owing to the scarcity of books, they were ill acquainted.
I did not approve of these cruel acts, though provoked by the tyranny of the government; but now there is a tendency to reproach all Intelligents with the memory of them.
This is very unfortunate for Intelligents.
“It was when the railway strike was almost over, and a few trains came through at long intervals, that I stood one day watching a train that had come in.
Only one person got out of the train, far away up at the other end of it, for it was a very long train.
It was evening, with a cold, greenish sky.
A little snow had fallen, but not enough to whiten the plain, which stretched away a sort of sad purple in all directions, save where the flat tops of some distant tablelands caught the evening light like lakes.
As the solitary man came stamping along on the thin snow by the train he grew larger and larger; I thought I had never seen so large a man.
But he looked even taller than he was, I think, because his shoulders were very big and his head comparatively little.
From the big shoulders hung a tattered old jacket, striped dull red and dirty white, very thin for the winter, and one hand rested on a huge pole such as peasants rake in weeds with to burn them.
“Before he had traversed the full length of the train he was entangled in one of those knots of rowdies that were the embers of the extinct revolution, though they mostly disgraced themselves upon the government side.
I was just moving to his assistance, when he whirled up his rake and laid out right and left with such energy that he came through them without scathe and strode right up to me, leaving them staggered and really astonished.
“Yet when he reached me, after so abrupt an assertion of his aim, he could only say rather dubiously in French that he wanted a house.
“‘There are not many houses to be had round here,’ I answered in the same language, ‘the district has been very disturbed.
A revolution, as you know, has recently been suppressed.
Any further building—’

“‘Oh!
I don’t mean that,’ he cried; ‘I mean a real house—a live house.
It really is a live house, for it runs away from me.’

“‘I am ashamed to say that something in his phrase or gesture moved me profoundly.
We Russians are brought up in an atmosphere of folk-lore, and its unfortunate effects can still be seen in the bright colours of the children’s dolls and of the ikons.
For an instant the idea of a house running away from a man gave me pleasure, for the enlightenment of man moves slowly.
“‘Have you no other house of your own?’ I asked.
“‘I have left it,’ he said very sadly.
‘It was not the house that grew dull, but I that grew dull in it.
My wife was better than all women, and yet I could not feel it.’

“‘And so,’ I said with sympathy, ‘you walked straight out of the front door, like a masculine Nora.’

“‘Nora?’ he inquired politely, apparently supposing it to be a Russian word.
“‘I mean Nora in “The Doll’s House,”’ I replied.
“At this he looked very much astonished, and I knew he was an Englishman; for Englishmen always think that Russians study nothing but ‘ukases.’

“‘The Doll’s House!’ he cried vehemently; ‘why, that is just where Ibsen was so wrong!
Why, the whole aim of a house is to be a doll’s house.
Don’t you remember, when you were a child, how those little windows WERE windows, while the big windows weren’t.
A child has a doll’s house, and shrieks when a front door opens inwards.
A banker has a real house, yet how numerous are the bankers who fail to emit the faintest shriek when their real front doors open inwards.’

“Something from the folk-lore of my infancy still kept me foolishly silent; and before I could speak, the Englishman had leaned over and was saying in a sort of loud whisper, ‘I have found out how to make a big thing small.
I have found out how to turn a house into a doll’s house.
Get a long way off it: God lets us turn all things into toys by his great gift of distance.
Once let me see my old brick house standing up quite little against the horizon, and I shall want to go back to it again.
I shall see the funny little toy lamp-post painted green against the gate, and all the dear little people like dolls looking out of the window.
For the windows really open in my doll’s house.’

“‘But why?’ I asked, ‘should you wish to return to that particular doll’s house?
Having taken, like Nora, the bold step against convention, having made yourself in the conventional sense disreputable, having dared to be free, why should you not take advantage of your freedom?
As the greatest modern writers have pointed out, what you called your marriage was only your mood.
You have a right to leave it all behind, like the clippings of your hair or the parings of your nails.
Having once escaped, you have the world before you.
Though the words may seem strange to you, you are free in Russia.’

“He sat with his dreamy eyes on the dark circles of the plains, where the only moving thing was the long and labouring trail of smoke out of the railway engine, violet in tint, volcanic in outline, the one hot and heavy cloud of that cold clear evening of pale green.
“‘Yes,’ he said with a huge sigh, ‘I am free in Russia.
You are right.
I could really walk into that town over there and have love all over again, and perhaps marry some beautiful woman and begin again, and nobody could ever find me.
Yes, you have certainly convinced me of something.’

“His tone was so queer and mystical that I felt impelled to ask him what he meant, and of what exactly I had convinced him.
“‘You have convinced me,’ he said with the same dreamy eye, ‘why it is really wicked and dangerous for a man to run away from his wife.’

“‘And why is it dangerous?’ I inquired.
“‘Why, because nobody can find him,’ answered this odd person, ‘and we all want to be found.’

“‘The most original modern thinkers,’ I remarked, ‘Ibsen, Gorki, Nietzsche, Shaw, would all rather say that what we want most is to be lost: to find ourselves in untrodden paths, and to do unprecedented things: to break with the past and belong to the future.’

“He rose to his whole height somewhat sleepily, and looked round on what was, I confess, a somewhat desolate scene—the dark purple plains, the neglected railroad, the few ragged knots of malcontents.
‘I shall not find the house here,’ he said.
‘It is still eastward— further and further eastward.’

“Then he turned upon me with something like fury, and struck the foot of his pole upon the frozen earth.
“‘And if I do go back to my country,’ he cried, ‘I may be locked up in a madhouse before I reach my own house.
I have been a bit unconventional in my time!
Why, Nietzsche stood in a row of ramrods in the silly old Prussian army, and Shaw takes temperance beverages in the suburbs; but the things I do are unprecedented things.
This round road I am treading is an untrodden path.
I do believe in breaking out; I am a revolutionist.
But don’t you see that all these real leaps and destructions and escapes are only attempts to get back to Eden— to something we have had, to something we at least have heard of?
Don’t you see one only breaks the fence or shoots the moon in order to get HOME?’

“‘No,’ I answered after due reflection, ‘I don’t think I should accept that.’

“‘Ah,’ he said with a sort of a sigh, ‘then you have explained a second thing to me.’

“‘What do you mean?’ I asked; ‘what thing?’

“‘Why your revolution has failed,’ he said; and walking across quite suddenly to the train he got into it just as it was steaming away at last.
And as I saw the long snaky tail of it disappear along the darkening flats.
“I saw no more of him.
But though his views were adverse to the best advanced thought, he struck me as an interesting person: I should like to find out if he has produced any literary works.—Yours, etc., “Paul Nickolaiovitch.”

There was something in this odd set of glimpses into foreign lives which kept the absurd tribunal quieter than it had hitherto been, and it was again without interruption that Inglewood opened another paper upon his pile.
“The Court will be indulgent,” he said, “if the next note lacks the special ceremonies of our letter-writing.
It is ceremonious enough in its own way:—

“The Celestial Principles are permanent: Greeting.—I am Wong-Hi, and I tend the temple of all the ancestors of my family in the forest of Fu.
The man that broke through the sky and came to me said that it must be very dull, but I showed him the wrongness of his thought.
I am indeed in one place, for my uncle took me to this temple when I was a boy, and in this I shall doubtless die.
But if a man remain in one place he shall see that the place changes.
The pagoda of my temple stands up silently out of all the trees, like a yellow pagoda above many green pagodas.
But the skies are sometimes blue like porcelain, and sometimes green like jade, and sometimes red like garnet.
But the night is always ebony and always returns, said the Emperor Ho.
“The sky-breaker came at evening very suddenly, for I had hardly seen any stirring in the tops of the green trees over which I look as over a sea, when I go to the top of the temple at morning.
And yet when he came, it was as if an elephant had strayed from the armies of the great kings of India.
For palms snapped, and bamboos broke, and there came forth in the sunshine before the temple one taller than the sons of men.
“Strips of red and white hung about him like ribbons of a carnival, and he carried a pole with a row of teeth on it like the teeth of a dragon.
His face was white and discomposed, after the fashion of the foreigners, so that they look like dead men filled with devils; and he spoke our speech brokenly.
“He said to me, ‘This is only a temple; I am trying to find a house.’ And then he told me with indelicate haste that the lamp outside his house was green, and that there was a red post at the corner of it.
“‘I have not seen your house nor any houses,’ I answered.
‘I dwell in this temple and serve the gods.’

“‘Do you believe in the gods?’ he asked with hunger in his eyes, like the hunger of dogs.
And this seemed to me a strange question to ask, for what should a man do except what men have done?
“‘My Lord,’ I said, ‘it must be good for men to hold up their hands even if the skies are empty.
For if there are gods, they will be pleased, and if there are none, then there are none to be displeased.
Sometimes the skies are gold and sometimes porphyry and sometimes ebony, but the trees and the temple stand still under it all.
So the great Confucius taught us that if we do always the same things with our hands and our feet as do the wise beasts and birds, with our heads we may think many things: yes, my Lord, and doubt many things.
So long as men offer rice at the right season, and kindle lanterns at the right hour, it matters little whether there be gods or no.
For these things are not to appease gods, but to appease men.’

“He came yet closer to me, so that he seemed enormous; yet his look was very gentle.
“‘Break your temple,’ he said, ‘and your gods will be freed.’

“And I, smiling at his simplicity, answered: ‘And so, if there be no gods, I shall have nothing but a broken temple.’

“And at this, that giant from whom the light of reason was withheld threw out his mighty arms and asked me to forgive him.
And when I asked him for what he should be forgiven he answered: ‘For being right.’

“‘Your idols and emperors are so old and wise and satisfying,’ he cried, ‘it is a shame that they should be wrong.
We are so vulgar and violent, we have done you so many iniquities— it is a shame we should be right after all.’

“And I, still enduring his harmlessness, asked him why he thought that he and his people were right.
“And he answered: ‘We are right because we are bound where men should be bound, and free where men should be free.
We are right because we doubt and destroy laws and customs— but we do not doubt our own right to destroy them.
For you live by customs, but we live by creeds.
Behold me!
In my country I am called Smip.
My country is abandoned, my name is defiled, because I pursue around the world what really belongs to me.
You are steadfast as the trees because you do not believe.
I am as fickle as the tempest because I do believe.
I do believe in my own house, which I shall find again.
And at the last remaineth the green lantern and the red post.’

“I said to him: ‘At the last remaineth only wisdom.’

“But even as I said the word he uttered a horrible shout, and rushing forward disappeared among the trees.
I have not seen this man again nor any other man.
The virtues of the wise are of fine brass.
“Wong-Hi.”

“The next letter I have to read,” proceeded Arthur Inglewood, “will probably make clear the nature of our client’s curious but innocent experiment.
It is dated from a mountain village in California, and runs as follows:—

“Sir,—A person answering to the rather extraordinary description required certainly went, some time ago, over the high pass of the Sierras on which I live and of which I am probably the sole stationary inhabitant.
I keep a rudimentary tavern, rather ruder than a hut, on the very top of this specially steep and threatening pass.
My name is Louis Hara, and the very name may puzzle you about my nationality.
Well, it puzzles me a great deal.
When one has been for fifteen years without society it is hard to have patriotism; and where there is not even a hamlet it is difficult to invent a nation.
My father was an Irishman of the fiercest and most free-shooting of the old Californian kind.
My mother was a Spaniard, proud of descent from the old Spanish families round San Francisco, yet accused for all that of some admixture of Red Indian blood.
I was well educated and fond of music and books.
But, like many other hybrids, I was too good or too bad for the world; and after attempting many things I was glad enough to get a sufficient though a lonely living in this little cabaret in the mountains.
In my solitude I fell into many of the ways of a savage.
Like an Eskimo, I was shapeless in winter; like a Red Indian, I wore in hot summers nothing but a pair of leather trousers, with a great straw hat as big as a parasol to defend me from the sun.
I had a bowie knife at my belt and a long gun under my arm; and I dare say I produced a pretty wild impression on the few peaceable travellers that could climb up to my place.
But I promise you I never looked as mad as that man did.
Compared with him I was Fifth Avenue.
“I dare say that living under the very top of the Sierras has an odd effect on the mind; one tends to think of those lonely rocks not as peaks coming to a point, but rather as pillars holding up heaven itself.
Straight cliffs sail up and away beyond the hope of the eagles; cliffs so tall that they seem to attract the stars and collect them as sea-crags collect a mere glitter of phosphorous.
These terraces and towers of rock do not, like smaller crests, seem to be the end of the world.
Rather they seem to be its awful beginning: its huge foundations.
We could almost fancy the mountain branching out above us like a tree of stone, and carrying all those cosmic lights like a candelabrum.
For just as the peaks failed us, soaring impossibly far, so the stars crowded us (as it seemed), coming impossibly near.
The spheres burst about us more like thunderbolts hurled at the earth than planets circling placidly about it.
“All this may have driven me mad; I am not sure.
I know there is one angle of the road down the pass where the rock leans out a little, and on windy nights I seem to hear it clashing overhead with other rocks— yes, city against city and citadel against citadel, far up into the night.
It was on such an evening that the strange man struggled up the pass.
Broadly speaking, only strange men did struggle up the pass.
But I had never seen one like this one before.
“He carried (I cannot conceive why) a long, dilapidated garden rake, all bearded and bedraggled with grasses, so that it looked like the ensign of some old barbarian tribe.
His hair, which was as long and rank as the grass, hung down below his huge shoulders; and such clothes as clung about him were rags and tongues of red and yellow, so that he had the air of being dressed like an Indian in feathers or autumn leaves.
The rake or pitchfork, or whatever it was, he used sometimes as an alpenstock, sometimes (I was told) as a weapon.
I do not know why he should have used it as a weapon, for he had, and afterwards showed me, an excellent six-shooter in his pocket.
‘But THAT,’ he said, ‘I use only for peaceful purposes.’ I have no notion what he meant.
“He sat down on the rough bench outside my inn and drank some wine from the vineyards below, sighing with ecstasy over it like one who had travelled long among alien, cruel things and found at last something that he knew.
Then he sat staring rather foolishly at the rude lantern of lead and coloured glass that hangs over my door.
It is old, but of no value; my grandmother gave it to me long ago: she was devout, and it happens that the glass is painted with a crude picture of Bethlehem and the Wise Men and the Star.
He seemed so mesmerized with the transparent glow of Our Lady’s blue gown and the big gold star behind, that he led me also to look at the thing, which I had not done for fourteen years.
“Then he slowly withdrew his eyes from this and looked out eastward where the road fell away below us.
The sunset sky was a vault of rich velvet, fading away into mauve and silver round the edges of the dark mountain amphitheatre; and between us and the ravine below rose up out of the deeps and went up into the heights the straight solitary rock we call Green Finger.
Of a queer volcanic colour, and wrinkled all over with what looks undecipherable writing, it hung there like a Babylonian pillar or needle.
“The man silently stretched out his rake in that direction, and before he spoke I knew what he meant.
Beyond the great green rock in the purple sky hung a single star.
“‘A star in the east,’ he said in a strange hoarse voice like one of our ancient eagles’.
‘The wise men followed the star and found the house.
But if I followed the star, should I find the house?’

“‘It depends perhaps,’ I said, smiling, ‘on whether you are a wise man.’ I refrained from adding that he certainly didn’t look it.
“‘You may judge for yourself,’ he answered.
‘I am a man who left his own house because he could no longer bear to be away from it.’

“‘It certainly sounds paradoxical,’ I said.
“‘I heard my wife and children talking and saw them moving about the room,’ he continued, ‘and all the time I knew they were walking and talking in another house thousands of miles away, under the light of different skies, and beyond the series of the seas.
I loved them with a devouring love, because they seemed not only distant but unattainable.
Never did human creatures seem so dear and so desirable: but I seemed like a cold ghost; therefore I cast off their dust from my feet for a testimony.
Nay, I did more.
I spurned the world under my feet so that it swung full circle like a treadmill.’

“‘Do you really mean,’ I cried, ‘that you have come right round the world?
Your speech is English, yet you are coming from the west.’

“‘My pilgrimage is not yet accomplished,’ he replied sadly.
‘I have become a pilgrim to cure myself of being an exile.’

“Something in the word ‘pilgrim’ awoke down in the roots of my ruinous experience memories of what my fathers had felt about the world, and of something from whence I came.
I looked again at the little pictured lantern at which I had not looked for fourteen years.
“‘My grandmother,’ I said in a low tone, ‘would have said that we were all in exile, and that no earthly house could cure the holy home-sickness that forbids us rest.’

“He was silent a long while, and watched a single eagle drift out beyond the Green Finger into the darkening void.
“Then he said, ‘I think your grandmother was right,’ and stood up leaning on his grassy pole.
‘I think that must be the reason,’ he said—‘the secret of this life of man, so ecstatic and so unappeased.
But I think there is more to be said.
I think God has given us the love of special places, of a hearth and of a native land, for a good reason.’

“‘I dare say,’ I said.
‘What reason?’

“‘Because otherwise,’ he said, pointing his pole out at the sky and the abyss, ‘we might worship that.’

“‘What do you mean?’ I demanded.
“‘Eternity,’ he said in his harsh voice, ‘the largest of the idols— the mightiest of the rivals of God.’

“‘You mean pantheism and infinity and all that,’ I suggested.
“‘I mean,’ he said with increasing vehemence, ‘that if there be a house for me in heaven it will either have a green lamp-post and a hedge, or something quite as positive and personal as a green lamp-post and a hedge.
I mean that God bade me love one spot and serve it, and do all things however wild in praise of it, so that this one spot might be a witness against all the infinities and the sophistries, that Paradise is somewhere and not anywhere, is something and not anything.
And I would not be so very much surprised if the house in heaven had a real green lamp-post after all.’

“With which he shouldered his pole and went striding down the perilous paths below, and left me alone with the eagles.
But since he went a fever of homelessness will often shake me.
I am troubled by rainy meadows and mud cabins that I have never seen; and I wonder whether America will endure.— Yours faithfully, Louis Hara.”

After a short silence Inglewood said: “And, finally, we desire to put in as evidence the following document:—

“This is to say that I am Ruth Davis, and have been housemaid to Mrs.
I. Smith at ‘The Laurels’ in Croydon for the last six months.
When I came the lady was alone, with two children; she was not a widow, but her husband was away.
She was left with plenty of money and did not seem disturbed about him, though she often hoped he would be back soon.
She said he was rather eccentric and a little change did him good.
One evening last week I was bringing the tea-things out on to the lawn when I nearly dropped them.
The end of a long rake was suddenly stuck over the hedge, and planted like a jumping-pole; and over the hedge, just like a monkey on a stick, came a huge, horrible man, all hairy and ragged like Robinson Crusoe.
I screamed out, but my mistress didn’t even get out of her chair, but smiled and said he wanted shaving.
Then he sat down quite calmly at the garden table and took a cup of tea, and then I realized that this must be Mr. Smith himself.
He has stopped here ever since and does not really give much trouble, though I sometimes fancy he is a little weak in his head.
“Ruth Davis.
“P.S.—I forgot to say that he looked round at the garden and said, very loud and strong: ‘Oh, what a lovely place you’ve got;’ just as if he’d never seen it before.”

The room had been growing dark and drowsy; the afternoon sun sent one heavy shaft of powdered gold across it, which fell with an intangible solemnity upon the empty seat of Mary Gray, for the younger women had left the court before the more recent of the investigations.
Mrs. Duke was still asleep, and Innocent Smith, looking like a large hunchback in the twilight, was bending closer and closer to his paper toys.
But the five men really engaged in the controversy, and concerned not to convince the tribunal but to convince each other, still sat round the table like the Committee of Public Safety.
Suddenly Moses Gould banged one big scientific book on top of another, cocked his little legs up against the table, tipped his chair backwards so far as to be in direct danger of falling over, emitted a startling and prolonged whistle like a steam engine, and asserted that it was all his eye.
When asked by Moon what was all his eye, he banged down behind the books again and answered with considerable excitement, throwing his papers about.
“All those fairy-tales you’ve been reading out,” he said.
“Oh!
don’t talk to me!
I ain’t littery and that, but I know fairy-tales when I hear ’em.
I got a bit stumped in some of the philosophical bits and felt inclined to go out for a B. and S. But we’re living in West ’Ampstead and not in ’Ell; and the long and the short of it is that some things ’appen and some things don’t ’appen.
Those are the things that don’t ’appen.”

“I thought,” said Moon gravely, “that we quite clearly explained—”

“Oh yes, old chap, you quite clearly explained,” assented Mr. Gould with extraordinary volubility.
“You’d explain an elephant off the doorstep, you would.
I ain’t a clever chap like you; but I ain’t a born natural, Michael Moon, and when there’s an elephant on my doorstep I don’t listen to no explanations.
‘It’s got a trunk,’ I says.—‘My trunk,’ you says: ‘I’m fond of travellin’, and a change does me good.’—‘But the blasted thing’s got tusks,’ I says.—‘Don’t look a gift ’orse in the mouth,’ you says, ‘but thank the goodness and the graice that on your birth ’as smiled.’—‘But it’s nearly as big as the ’ouse,’ I says.—‘That’s the bloomin’ perspective,’ you says, ‘and the sacred magic of distance.’—‘Why, the elephant’s trumpetin’ like the Day of Judgement,’ I says.—‘That’s your own conscience a-talking to you, Moses Gould,’ you says in a grive and tender voice.
Well, I ’ave got a conscience as much as you.
I don’t believe most of the things they tell you in church on Sundays; and I don’t believe these ’ere things any more because you goes on about ’em as if you was in church.
I believe an elephant’s a great big ugly dingerous beast— and I believe Smith’s another.”

“Do you mean to say,” asked Inglewood, “that you still doubt the evidence of exculpation we have brought forward?”

“Yes, I do still doubt it,” said Gould warmly.
“It’s all a bit too far-fetched, and some of it a bit too far off.
’Ow can we test all those tales?
’Ow can we drop in and buy the ‘Pink ’Un’ at the railway station at Kosky Wosky or whatever it was?
’Ow can we go and do a gargle at the saloon-bar on top of the Sierra Mountains?
But anybody can go and see Bunting’s boarding-house at Worthing.”

Moon regarded him with an expression of real or assumed surprise.
“Any one,” continued Gould, “can call on Mr. Trip.”

“It is a comforting thought,” replied Michael with restraint; “but why should any one call on Mr. Trip?”

“For just exactly the sime reason,” cried the excited Moses, hammering on the table with both hands, “for just exactly the sime reason that he should communicate with Messrs. ’Anbury and Bootle of Paternoster Row and with Miss Gridley’s ’igh class Academy at ’Endon, and with old Lady Bullingdon who lives at Penge.”

“Again, to go at once to the moral roots of life,” said Michael, “why is it among the duties of man to communicate with old Lady Bullingdon who lives at Penge?”

“It ain’t one of the duties of man,” said Gould, “nor one of his pleasures, either, I can tell you.
She takes the crumpet, does Lady Bullingdon at Penge.
But it’s one of the duties of a prosecutor pursuin’ the innocent, blameless butterfly career of your friend Smith, and it’s the sime with all the others I mentioned.”

“But why do you bring in these people here?” asked Inglewood.
“Why!
Because we’ve got proof enough to sink a steamboat,” roared Moses; “because I’ve got the papers in my very ’and; because your precious Innocent is a blackguard and ’ome smasher, and these are the ’omes he’s smashed.
I don’t set up for a ’oly man; but I wouldn’t ’ave all those poor girls on my conscience for something.
And I think a chap that’s capable of deserting and perhaps killing ’em all is about capable of cracking a crib or shootin’ an old schoolmaster—so I don’t care much about the other yarns one way or another.”

“I think,” said Dr. Cyrus Pym with a refined cough, “that we are approaching this matter rather irregularly.
This is really the fourth charge on the charge sheet, and perhaps I had better put it before you in an ordered and scientific manner.”

Nothing but a faint groan from Michael broke the silence of the darkening room.
Chapter IV The Wild Weddings; or, the Polygamy Charge

“A modern man,” said Dr. Cyrus Pym, “must, if he be thoughtful, approach the problem of marriage with some caution.
Marriage is a stage—doubtless a suitable stage—in the long advance of mankind towards a goal which we cannot as yet conceive; which we are not, perhaps, as yet fitted even to desire.
What, gentlemen, is the ethical position of marriage?
Have we outlived it?”

“Outlived it?” broke out Moon; “why, nobody’s ever survived it!
Look at all the people married since Adam and Eve—and all as dead as mutton.”

“This is no doubt an inter-pellation joc’lar in its character,” said Dr. Pym frigidly.
“I cannot tell what may be Mr. Moon’s matured and ethical view of marriage—”

“I can tell,” said Michael savagely, out of the gloom.
“Marriage is a duel to the death, which no man of honour should decline.”

“Michael,” said Arthur Inglewood in a low voice, “you MUST keep quiet.”

“Mr.
Moon,” said Pym with exquisite good temper, “probably regards the institution in a more antiquated manner.
Probably he would make it stringent and uniform.
He would treat divorce in some great soul of steel—the divorce of a Julius Caesar or of a Salt Ring Robinson— exactly as he would treat some no-account tramp or labourer who scoots from his wife.
Science has views broader and more humane.
Just as murder for the scientist is a thirst for absolute destruction, just as theft for the scientist is a hunger for monotonous acquisition, so polygamy for the scientist is an extreme development of the instinct for variety.
A man thus afflicted is incapable of constancy.
Doubtless there is a physical cause for this flitting from flower to flower— as there is, doubtless, for the intermittent groaning which appears to afflict Mr.
Moon at the present moment.
Our own world-scorning Winterbottom has even dared to say, ‘For a certain rare and fine physical type polygamy is but the realization of the variety of females, as comradeship is the realization of the variety of males.’ In any case, the type that tends to variety is recognized by all authoritative inquirers.
Such a type, if the widower of a negress, does in many ascertained cases espouse _en seconde noces_ an albino; such a type, when freed from the gigantic embraces of a female Patagonian, will often evolve from its own imaginative instinct the consoling figure of an Eskimo.
To such a type there can be no doubt that the prisoner belongs.
If blind doom and unbearable temptation constitute any slight excuse for a man, there is no doubt that he has these excuses.
“Earlier in the inquiry the defence showed real chivalric ideality in admitting half of our story without further dispute.
We should like to acknowledge and imitate so eminently large-hearted a style by conceding also that the story told by Curate Percy about the canoe, the weir, and the young wife seems to be substantially true.
Apparently Smith did marry a young woman he had nearly run down in a boat; it only remains to be considered whether it would not have been kinder of him to have murdered her instead of marrying her.
In confirmation of this fact I can now con-cede to the defence an unquestionable record of such a marriage.”

So saying, he handed across to Michael a cutting from the “Maidenhead Gazette” which distinctly recorded the marriage of the daughter of a “coach,” a tutor well known in the place, to Mr. Innocent Smith, late of Brakespeare College, Cambridge.
When Dr. Pym resumed it was realized that his face had grown at once both tragic and triumphant.
“I pause upon this pre-liminary fact,” he said seriously, “because this fact alone would give us the victory, were we aspiring after victory and not after truth.
As far as the personal and domestic problem holds us, that problem is solved.
Dr. Warner and I entered this house at an instant of highly emotional diff’culty.
England’s Warner has entered many houses to save human kind from sickness; this time he entered to save an innocent lady from a walking pestilence.
Smith was just about to carry away a young girl from this house; his cab and bag were at the very door.
He had told her she was going to await the marriage license at the house of his aunt.
That aunt,” continued Cyrus Pym, his face darkening grandly—“that visionary aunt had been the dancing will-o’-the-wisp who had led many a high-souled maiden to her doom.
Into how many virginal ears has he whispered that holy word?
When he said ‘aunt’ there glowed about her all the merriment and high morality of the Anglo-Saxon home.
Kettles began to hum, pussy cats to purr, in that very wild cab that was being driven to destruction.”

Inglewood looked up, to find, to his astonishment (as many another denizen of the eastern hemisphere has found), that the American was not only perfectly serious, but was really eloquent and affecting— when the difference of the hemispheres was adjusted.
“It is therefore atrociously evident that the man Smith has at least represented himself to one innocent female of this house as an eligible bachelor, being, in fact, a married man.
I agree with my colleague, Mr. Gould, that no other crime could approximate to this.
As to whether what our ancestors called purity has any ultimate ethical value indeed, science hesitates with a high, proud hesitation.
But what hesitation can there be about the baseness of a citizen who ventures, by brutal experiments upon living females, to anticipate the verdict of science on such a point?
“The woman mentioned by Curate Percy as living with Smith in Highbury may or may not be the same as the lady he married in Maidenhead.
If one short sweet spell of constancy and heart repose interrupted the plunging torrent of his profligate life, we will not deprive him of that long past possibility.
After that conjectural date, alas, he seems to have plunged deeper and deeper into the shaking quagmires of infidelity and shame.”

Dr. Pym closed his eyes, but the unfortunate fact that there was no more light left this familiar signal without its full and proper moral effect.
After a pause, which almost partook of the character of prayer, he continued.
“The first instance of the accused’s repeated and irregular nuptials,” he exclaimed, “comes from Lady Bullingdon, who expresses herself with the high haughtiness which must be excused in those who look out upon all mankind from the turrets of a Norman and ancestral keep.
The communication she has sent to us runs as follows:—

“Lady Bullingdon recalls the painful incident to which reference is made, and has no desire to deal with it in detail.
The girl Polly Green was a perfectly adequate dressmaker, and lived in the village for about two years.
Her unattached condition was bad for her as well as for the general morality of the village.
Lady Bullingdon, therefore, allowed it to be understood that she favoured the marriage of the young woman.
The villagers, naturally wishing to oblige Lady Bullingdon, came forward in several cases; and all would have been well had it not been for the deplorable eccentricity or depravity of the girl Green herself.
Lady Bullingdon supposes that where there is a village there must be a village idiot, and in her village, it seems, there was one of these wretched creatures.
Lady Bullingdon only saw him once, and she is quite aware that it is really difficult to distinguish between actual idiots and the ordinary heavy type of the rural lower classes.
She noticed, however, the startling smallness of his head in comparison to the rest of his body; and, indeed, the fact of his having appeared upon election day wearing the rosette of both the two opposing parties appears to Lady Bullingdon to put the matter quite beyond doubt.
Lady Bullingdon was astounded to learn that this afflicted being had put himself forward as one of the suitors of the girl in question.
Lady Bullingdon’s nephew interviewed the wretch upon the point, telling him that he was a ‘donkey’ to dream of such a thing, and actually received, along with an imbecile grin, the answer that donkeys generally go after carrots.
But Lady Bullingdon was yet further amazed to find the unhappy girl inclined to accept this monstrous proposal, though she was actually asked in marriage by Garth, the undertaker, a man in a far superior position to her own.
Lady Bullingdon could not, of course, countenance such an arrangement for a moment, and the two unhappy persons escaped for a clandestine marriage.
Lady Bullingdon cannot exactly recall the man’s name, but thinks it was Smith.
He was always called in the village the Innocent.
Later, Lady Bullingdon believes he murdered Green in a mental outbreak.”

“The next communication,” proceeded Pym, “is more conspicuous for brevity, but I am of the opinion that it will adequately convey the upshot.
It is dated from the offices of Messrs. Hanbury and Bootle, publishers, and is as follows:—

“Sir,—Yrs.
rcd.
and conts.
noted.
Rumour re typewriter possibly refers to a Miss Blake or similar name, left here nine years ago to marry an organ-grinder.
Case was undoubtedly curious, and attracted police attention.
Girl worked excellently till about Oct. 1907, when apparently went mad.
Record was written at the time, part of which I enclose.— Yrs., etc., W. Trip.
“The fuller statement runs as follows:—

“On October 12 a letter was sent from this office to Messrs. Bernard and Juke, bookbinders.
Opened by Mr. Juke, it was found to contain the following: ‘Sir, our Mr. Trip will call at 3, as we wish to know whether it is really decided 00000073bb!!!!
!xy.’ To this Mr. Juke, a person of a playful mind, returned the answer: ‘Sir, I am in a position to give it as my most decided opinion that it is not really decided that 00000073bb!!!!!xy.
Yrs., etc., ‘J.
Juke.’

“On receiving this extraordinary reply, our Mr. Trip asked for the original letter sent from him, and found that the typewriter had indeed substituted these demented hieroglyphics for the sentences really dictated to her.
Our Mr. Trip interviewed the girl, fearing that she was in an unbalanced state, and was not much reassured when she merely remarked that she always went like that when she heard the barrel organ.
Becoming yet more hysterical and extravagant, she made a series of most improbable statements—as, that she was engaged to the barrel-organ man, that he was in the habit of serenading her on that instrument, that she was in the habit of playing back to him upon the typewriter (in the style of King Richard and Blondel), and that the organ man’s musical ear was so exquisite and his adoration of herself so ardent that he could detect the note of the different letters on the machine, and was enraptured by them as by a melody.
To all these statements of course our Mr. Trip and the rest of us only paid that sort of assent that is paid to persons who must as quickly as possible be put in the charge of their relations.
But on our conducting the lady downstairs, her story received the most startling and even exasperating confirmation; for the organ-grinder, an enormous man with a small head and manifestly a fellow-lunatic, had pushed his barrel organ in at the office doors like a battering-ram, and was boisterously demanding his alleged _fiancée_.
When I myself came on the scene he was flinging his great, ape-like arms about and reciting a poem to her.
But we were used to lunatics coming and reciting poems in our office, and we were not quite prepared for what followed.
The actual verse he uttered began, I think,

‘O vivid, inviolate head, Ringed—’

but he never got any further.
Mr. Trip made a sharp movement towards him, and the next moment the giant picked up the poor lady typewriter like a doll, sat her on top of the organ, ran it with a crash out of the office doors, and raced away down the street like a flying wheelbarrow.
I put the police upon the matter; but no trace of the amazing pair could be found.
I was sorry myself; for the lady was not only pleasant but unusually cultivated for her position.
As I am leaving the service of Messrs. Hanbury and Bootle, I put these things in a record and leave it with them.
(Signed) Aubrey Clarke, Publishers’ Reader.
“And the last document,” said Dr. Pym complacently, “is from one of those high-souled women who have in this age introduced your English girlhood to hockey, the higher mathematics, and every form of ideality.
“Dear Sir (she writes),—I have no objection to telling you the facts about the absurd incident you mention; though I would ask you to communicate them with some caution, for such things, however entertaining in the abstract, are not always auxiliary to the success of a girls’ school.
The truth is this: I wanted some one to deliver a lecture on a philological or historical question—a lecture which, while containing solid educational matter, should be a little more popular and entertaining than usual, as it was the last lecture of the term.
I remembered that a Mr. Smith of Cambridge had written somewhere or other an amusing essay about his own somewhat ubiquitous name— an essay which showed considerable knowledge of genealogy and topography.
I wrote to him, asking if he would come and give us a bright address upon English surnames; and he did.
It was very bright, almost too bright.
To put the matter otherwise, by the time that he was halfway through it became apparent to the other mistresses and myself that the man was totally and entirely off his head.
He began rationally enough by dealing with the two departments of place names and trade names, and he said (quite rightly, I dare say) that the loss of all significance in names was an instance of the deadening of civilization.
But then he went on calmly to maintain that every man who had a place name ought to go to live in that place, and that every man who had a trade name ought instantly to adopt that trade; that people named after colours should always dress in those colours, and that people named after trees or plants (such as Beech or Rose) ought to surround and decorate themselves with these vegetables.
In a slight discussion that arose afterwards among the elder girls the difficulties of the proposal were clearly, and even eagerly, pointed out.
It was urged, for instance, by Miss Younghusband that it was substantially impossible for her to play the part assigned to her; Miss Mann was in a similar dilemma, from which no modern views on the sexes could apparently extricate her; and some young ladies, whose surnames happened to be Low, Coward, and Craven, were quite enthusiastic against the idea.
But all this happened afterwards.
What happened at the crucial moment was that the lecturer produced several horseshoes and a large iron hammer from his bag, announced his immediate intention of setting up a smithy in the neighbourhood, and called on every one to rise in the same cause as for a heroic revolution.
The other mistresses and I attempted to stop the wretched man, but I must confess that by an accident this very intercession produced the worst explosion of his insanity.
He was waving the hammer, and wildly demanding the names of everybody; and it so happened that Miss Brown, one of the younger teachers, was wearing a brown dress—a reddish-brown dress that went quietly enough with the warmer colour of her hair, as well she knew.
She was a nice girl, and nice girls do know about those things.
But when our maniac discovered that we really had a Miss Brown who WAS brown, his _idée fixe_ blew up like a powder magazine, and there, in the presence of all the mistresses and girls, he publicly proposed to the lady in the red-brown dress.
You can imagine the effect of such a scene at a girls’ school.
At least, if you fail to imagine it, I certainly fail to describe it.
“Of course, the anarchy died down in a week or two, and I can think of it now as a joke.
There was only one curious detail, which I will tell you, as you say your inquiry is vital; but I should desire you to consider it a little more confidential than the rest.
Miss Brown, who was an excellent girl in every way, did quite suddenly and surreptitiously leave us only a day or two afterwards.
I should never have thought that her head would be the one to be really turned by so absurd an excitement.—Believe me, yours faithfully, Ada Gridley.
“I think,” said Pym, with a really convincing simplicity and seriousness, “that these letters speak for themselves.”

Mr.
Moon rose for the last time in a darkness that gave no hint of whether his native gravity was mixed with his native irony.
“Throughout this inquiry,” he said, “but especially in this its closing phase, the prosecution has perpetually relied upon one argument; I mean the fact that no one knows what has become of all the unhappy women apparently seduced by Smith.
There is no sort of proof that they were murdered, but that implication is perpetually made when the question is asked as to how they died.
Now I am not interested in how they died, or when they died, or whether they died.
But I am interested in another analogous question—that of how they were born, and when they were born, and whether they were born.
Do not misunderstand me.
I do not dispute the existence of these women, or the veracity of those who have witnessed to them.
I merely remark on the notable fact that only one of these victims, the Maidenhead girl, is described as having any home or parents.
All the rest are boarders or birds of passage—a guest, a solitary dressmaker, a bachelor-girl doing typewriting.
Lady Bullingdon, looking from her turrets, which she bought from the Whartons with the old soap-boiler’s money when she jumped at marrying an unsuccessful gentleman from Ulster—Lady Bullingdon, looking out from those turrets, did really see an object which she describes as Green.
Mr. Trip, of Hanbury and Bootle, really did have a typewriter betrothed to Smith.
Miss Gridley, though idealistic, is absolutely honest.
She did house, feed, and teach a young woman whom Smith succeeded in decoying away.
We admit that all these women really lived.
But we still ask whether they were ever born?”

“Oh, crikey!” said Moses Gould, stifled with amusement.
“There could hardly,” interposed Pym with a quiet smile, “be a better instance of the neglect of true scientific process.
The scientist, when once convinced of the fact of vitality and consciousness, would infer from these the previous process of generation.”

“If these gals,” said Gould impatiently—“if these gals were all alive (all alive O!)
I’d chance a fiver they were all born.”

“You’d lose your fiver,” said Michael, speaking gravely out of the gloom.
“All those admirable ladies were alive.
They were more alive for having come into contact with Smith.
They were all quite definitely alive, but only one of them was ever born.”

“Are you asking us to believe—” began Dr. Pym.
“I am asking you a second question,” said Moon sternly.
“Can the court now sitting throw any light on a truly singular circumstance?
Dr. Pym, in his interesting lecture on what are called, I believe, the relations of the sexes, said that Smith was the slave of a lust for variety which would lead a man first to a negress and then to an albino, first to a Patagonian giantess and then to a tiny Eskimo.
But is there any evidence of such variety here?
Is there any trace of a gigantic Patagonian in the story?
Was the typewriter an Eskimo?
So picturesque a circumstance would not surely have escaped remark.
Was Lady Bullingdon’s dressmaker a negress?
A voice in my bosom answers, ‘No!’ Lady Bullingdon, I am sure, would think a negress so conspicuous as to be almost Socialistic, and would feel something a little rakish even about an albino.
“But was there in Smith’s taste any such variety as the learned doctor describes?
So far as our slight materials go, the very opposite seems to be the case.
We have only one actual description of any of the prisoner’s wives— the short but highly poetic account by the aesthetic curate.
‘Her dress was the colour of spring, and her hair of autumn leaves.’ Autumn leaves, of course, are of various colours, some of which would be rather startling in hair (green, for instance); but I think such an expression would be most naturally used of the shades from red-brown to red, especially as ladies with their coppery-coloured hair do frequently wear light artistic greens.
Now when we come to the next wife, we find the eccentric lover, when told he is a donkey, answering that donkeys always go after carrots; a remark which Lady Bullingdon evidently regarded as pointless and part of the natural table-talk of a village idiot, but which has an obvious meaning if we suppose that Polly’s hair was red.
Passing to the next wife, the one he took from the girls’ school, we find Miss Gridley noticing that the schoolgirl in question wore ‘a reddish-brown dress, that went quietly enough with the warmer colour of her hair.’ In other words, the colour of the girl’s hair was something redder than red-brown.
Lastly, the romantic organ-grinder declaimed in the office some poetry that only got as far as the words,—

‘O vivid, inviolate head, Ringed—’

But I think that a wide study of the worst modern poets will enable us to guess that ‘ringed with a glory of red,’ or ‘ringed with its passionate red,’ was the line that rhymed to ‘head.’ In this case once more, therefore, there is good reason to suppose that Smith fell in love with a girl with some sort of auburn or darkish-red hair—rather,” he said, looking down at the table, “rather like Miss Gray’s hair.”

Cyrus Pym was leaning forward with lowered eyelids, ready with one of his more pedantic interpellations; but Moses Gould suddenly struck his forefinger on his nose, with an expression of extreme astonishment and intelligence in his brilliant eyes.
“Mr.
Moon’s contention at present,” interposed Pym, “is not, even if veracious, inconsistent with the lunatico-criminal view of I. Smith, which we have nailed to the mast.
Science has long anticipated such a complication.
An incurable attraction to a particular type of physical woman is one of the commonest of criminal per-versities, and when not considered narrowly, but in the light of induction and evolution—”

“At this late stage,” said Michael Moon very quietly, “I may perhaps relieve myself of a simple emotion that has been pressing me throughout the proceedings, by saying that induction and evolution may go and boil themselves.
The Missing Link and all that is well enough for kids, but I’m talking about things we know here.
All we know of the Missing Link is that he is missing—and he won’t be missed either.
I know all about his human head and his horrid tail; they belong to a very old game called ‘Heads I win, tails you lose.’ If you do find a fellow’s bones, it proves he lived a long while ago; if you don’t find his bones, it proves how long ago he lived.
That is the game you’ve been playing with this Smith affair.
Because Smith’s head is small for his shoulders you call him microcephalous; if it had been large, you’d have called it water-on-the-brain.
As long as poor old Smith’s seraglio seemed pretty various, variety was the sign of madness: now, because it’s turning out to be a bit monochrome—now monotony is the sign of madness.
I suffer from all the disadvantages of being a grown-up person, and I’m jolly well going to get some of the advantages too; and with all politeness I propose not to be bullied with long words instead of short reasons, or consider your business a triumphant progress merely because you’re always finding out that you were wrong.
Having relieved myself of these feelings, I have merely to add that I regard Dr. Pym as an ornament to the world far more beautiful than the Parthenon, or the monument on Bunker’s Hill, and that I propose to resume and conclude my remarks on the many marriages of Mr. Innocent Smith.
“Besides this red hair, there is another unifying thread that runs through these scattered incidents.
There is something very peculiar and suggestive about the names of these women.
Mr. Trip, you will remember, said he thought the typewriter’s name was Blake, but could not remember exactly.
I suggest that it might have been Black, and in that case we have a curious series: Miss Green in Lady Bullingdon’s village; Miss Brown at the Hendon School; Miss Black at the publishers.
A chord of colours, as it were, which ends up with Miss Gray at Beacon House, West Hampstead.”

Amid a dead silence Moon continued his exposition.
“What is the meaning of this queer coincidence about colours?
Personally I cannot doubt for a moment that these names are purely arbitrary names, assumed as part of some general scheme or joke.
I think it very probable that they were taken from a series of costumes— that Polly Green only meant Polly (or Mary) when in green, and that Mary Gray only means Mary (or Polly) when in gray.
This would explain—”

Cyrus Pym was standing up rigid and almost pallid.
“Do you actually mean to suggest—” he cried.
“Yes,” said Michael; “I do mean to suggest that.
Innocent Smith has had many wooings, and many weddings for all I know; but he has had only one wife.
She was sitting on that chair an hour ago, and is now talking to Miss Duke in the garden.
“Yes, Innocent Smith has behaved here, as he has on hundreds of other occasions, upon a plain and perfectly blameless principle.
It is odd and extravagant in the modern world, but not more than any other principle plainly applied in the modern world would be.
His principle can be quite simply stated: he refuses to die while he is still alive.
He seeks to remind himself, by every electric shock to the intellect, that he is still a man alive, walking on two legs about the world.
For this reason he fires bullets at his best friends; for this reason he arranges ladders and collapsible chimneys to steal his own property; for this reason he goes plodding around a whole planet to get back to his own home; and for this reason he has been in the habit of taking the woman whom he loved with a permanent loyalty, and leaving her about (so to speak) at schools, boarding-houses, and places of business, so that he might recover her again and again with a raid and a romantic elopement.
He seriously sought by a perpetual recapture of his bride to keep alive the sense of her perpetual value, and the perils that should be run for her sake.
“So far his motives are clear enough; but perhaps his convictions are not quite so clear.
I think Innocent Smith has an idea at the bottom of all this.
I am by no means sure that I believe it myself, but I am quite sure that it is worth a man’s uttering and defending.
“The idea that Smith is attacking is this.
Living in an entangled civilization, we have come to think certain things wrong which are not wrong at all.
We have come to think outbreak and exuberance, banging and barging, rotting and wrecking, wrong.
In themselves they are not merely pardonable; they are unimpeachable.
There is nothing wicked about firing a pistol off even at a friend, so long as you do not mean to hit him and know you won’t.
It is no more wrong than throwing a pebble at the sea—less, for you do occasionally hit the sea.
There is nothing wrong in bashing down a chimney-pot and breaking through a roof, so long as you are not injuring the life or property of other men.
It is no more wrong to choose to enter a house from the top than to choose to open a packing-case from the bottom.
There is nothing wicked about walking round the world and coming back to your own house; it is no more wicked than walking round the garden and coming back to your own house.
And there is nothing wicked about picking up your wife here, there, and everywhere, if, forsaking all others, you keep only to her so long as you both shall live.
It is as innocent as playing a game of hide-and-seek in the garden.
You associate such acts with blackguardism by a mere snobbish association, as you think there is something vaguely vile about going (or being seen going) into a pawnbroker’s or a public-house.
You think there is something squalid and commonplace about such a connection.
You are mistaken.
“This man’s spiritual power has been precisely this, that he has distinguished between custom and creed.
He has broken the conventions, but he has kept the commandments.
It is as if a man were found gambling wildly in a gambling hell, and you found that he only played for trouser buttons.
It is as if you found a man making a clandestine appointment with a lady at a Covent Garden ball, and then you found it was his grandmother.
Everything is ugly and discreditable, except the facts; everything is wrong about him, except that he has done no wrong.
“It will then be asked, ‘Why does Innocent Smith continue far into his middle age a farcical existence, that exposes him to so many false charges?’ To this I merely answer that he does it because he really is happy, because he really is hilarious, because he really is a man and alive.
He is so young that climbing garden trees and playing silly practical jokes are still to him what they once were to us all.
And if you ask me yet again why he alone among men should be fed with such inexhaustible follies, I have a very simple answer to that, though it is one that will not be approved.
“There is but one answer, and I am sorry if you don’t like it.
If Innocent is happy, it is because he IS innocent.
If he can defy the conventions, it is just because he can keep the commandments.
It is just because he does not want to kill but to excite to life that a pistol is still as exciting to him as it is to a schoolboy.
It is just because he does not want to steal, because he does not covet his neighbour’s goods, that he has captured the trick (oh, how we all long for it!
), the trick of coveting his own goods.
It is just because he does not want to commit adultery that he achieves the romance of sex; it is just because he loves one wife that he has a hundred honeymoons.
If he had really murdered a man, if he had really deserted a woman, he would not be able to feel that a pistol or a love-letter was like a song— at least, not a comic song.”

“Do not imagine, please, that any such attitude is easy to me or appeals in any particular way to my sympathies.
I am an Irishman, and a certain sorrow is in my bones, bred either of the persecutions of my creed, or of my creed itself.
Speaking singly, I feel as if man was tied to tragedy, and there was no way out of the trap of old age and doubt.
But if there is a way out, then, by Christ and St. Patrick, this is the way out.
If one could keep as happy as a child or a dog, it would be by being as innocent as a child, or as sinless as a dog.
Barely and brutally to be good—that may be the road, and he may have found it.
Well, well, well, I see a look of skepticism on the face of my old friend Moses.
Mr. Gould does not believe that being perfectly good in all respects would make a man merry.”

“No,” said Gould, with an unusual and convincing gravity; “I do not believe that being perfectly good in all respects would make a man merry.”

“Well,” said Michael quietly, “will you tell me one thing?
Which of us has ever tried it?”

A silence ensued, rather like the silence of some long geological epoch which awaits the emergence of some unexpected type; for there rose at last in the stillness a massive figure that the other men had almost completely forgotten.
“Well, gentlemen,” said Dr. Warner cheerfully, “I’ve been pretty well entertained with all this pointless and incompetent tomfoolery for a couple of days; but it seems to be wearing rather thin, and I’m engaged for a city dinner.
Among the hundred flowers of futility on both sides I was unable to detect any sort of reason why a lunatic should be allowed to shoot me in the back garden.”

He had settled his silk hat on his head and gone out sailing placidly to the garden gate, while the almost wailing voice of Pym still followed him: “But really the bullet missed you by several feet.” And another voice added: “The bullet missed him by several years.”

There was a long and mainly unmeaning silence, and then Moon said suddenly, “We have been sitting with a ghost.
Dr. Herbert Warner died years ago.”

Chapter V How the Great Wind Went from Beacon House

Mary was walking between Diana and Rosamund slowly up and down the garden; they were silent, and the sun had set.
Such spaces of daylight as remained open in the west were of a warm-tinted white, which can be compared to nothing but a cream cheese; and the lines of plumy cloud that ran across them had a soft but vivid violet bloom, like a violet smoke.
All the rest of the scene swept and faded away into a dove-like gray, and seemed to melt and mount into Mary’s dark-gray figure until she seemed clothed with the garden and the skies.
There was something in these last quiet colours that gave her a setting and a supremacy; and the twilight, which concealed Diana’s statelier figure and Rosamund’s braver array, exhibited and emphasized her, leaving her the lady of the garden, and alone.
When they spoke at last it was evident that a conversation long fallen silent was being revived.
“But where is your husband taking you?” asked Diana in her practical voice.
“To an aunt,” said Mary; “that’s just the joke.
There really is an aunt, and we left the children with her when I arranged to be turned out of the other boarding-house down the road.
We never take more than a week of this kind of holiday, but sometimes we take two of them together.”

“Does the aunt mind much?” asked Rosamund innocently.
“Of course, I dare say it’s very narrow-minded and—what’s that other word?— you know, what Goliath was—but I’ve known many aunts who would think it—well, silly.”

“Silly?” cried Mary with great heartiness.
“Oh, my Sunday hat!
I should think it was silly!
But what do you expect?
He really is a good man, and it might have been snakes or something.”

“Snakes?” inquired Rosamund, with a slightly puzzled interest.
“Uncle Harry kept snakes, and said they loved him,” replied Mary with perfect simplicity.
“Auntie let him have them in his pockets, but not in the bedroom.”

“And you—” began Diana, knitting her dark brows a little.
“Oh, I do as auntie did,” said Mary; “as long as we’re not away from the children more than a fortnight together I play the game.
He calls me ‘Manalive;’ and you must write it all one word, or he’s quite flustered.”

“But if men want things like that,” began Diana.
“Oh, what’s the good of talking about men?” cried Mary impatiently; “why, one might as well be a lady novelist or some horrid thing.
There aren’t any men.
There are no such people.
There’s a man; and whoever he is he’s quite different.”

“So there is no safety,” said Diana in a low voice.
“Oh, I don’t know,” answered Mary, lightly enough; “there’s only two things generally true of them.
At certain curious times they’re just fit to take care of us, and they’re never fit to take care of themselves.”

“There is a gale getting up,” said Rosamund suddenly.
“Look at those trees over there, a long way off, and the clouds going quicker.”

“I know what you’re thinking about,” said Mary; “and don’t you be silly fools.
Don’t you listen to the lady novelists.
You go down the king’s highway; for God’s truth, it is God’s.
Yes, my dear Michael will often be extremely untidy.
Arthur Inglewood will be worse—he’ll be untidy.
But what else are all the trees and clouds for, you silly kittens?”

“The clouds and trees are all waving about,” said Rosamund.
“There is a storm coming, and it makes me feel quite excited, somehow.
Michael is really rather like a storm: he frightens me and makes me happy.”

“Don’t you be frightened,” said Mary.
“All over, these men have one advantage; they are the sort that go out.”

A sudden thrust of wind through the trees drifted the dying leaves along the path, and they could hear the far-off trees roaring faintly.
“I mean,” said Mary, “they are the kind that look outwards and get interested in the world.
It doesn’t matter a bit whether it’s arguing, or bicycling, or breaking down the ends of the earth as poor old Innocent does.
Stick to the man who looks out of the window and tries to understand the world.
Keep clear of the man who looks in at the window and tries to understand you.
When poor old Adam had gone out gardening (Arthur will go out gardening), the other sort came along and wormed himself in, nasty old snake.”

“You agree with your aunt,” said Rosamund, smiling: “no snakes in the bedroom.”

“I didn’t agree with my aunt very much,” replied Mary simply, “but I think she was right to let Uncle Harry collect dragons and griffins, so long as it got him out of the house.”

Almost at the same moment lights sprang up inside the darkened house, turning the two glass doors into the garden into gates of beaten gold.
The golden gates were burst open, and the enormous Smith, who had sat like a clumsy statue for so many hours, came flying and turning cart-wheels down the lawn and shouting, “Acquitted!
acquitted!” Echoing the cry, Michael scampered across the lawn to Rosamund and wildly swung her into a few steps of what was supposed to be a waltz.
But the company knew Innocent and Michael by this time, and their extravagances were gaily taken for granted; it was far more extraordinary that Arthur Inglewood walked straight up to Diana and kissed her as if it had been his sister’s birthday.
Even Dr. Pym, though he refrained from dancing, looked on with real benevolence; for indeed the whole of the absurd revelation had disturbed him less than the others; he half supposed that such irresponsible tribunals and insane discussions were part of the mediaeval mummeries of the Old Land.
While the tempest tore the sky as with trumpets, window after window was lighted up in the house within; and before the company, broken with laughter and the buffeting of the wind, had groped their way to the house again, they saw that the great apish figure of Innocent Smith had clambered out of his own attic window, and roaring again and again, “Beacon House!” whirled round his head a huge log or trunk from the wood fire below, of which the river of crimson flame and purple smoke drove out on the deafening air.
He was evident enough to have been seen from three counties; but when the wind died down, and the party, at the top of their evening’s merriment, looked again for Mary and for him, they were not to be found.
The End
