CHAPTER I.
IN WHICH MRS. MACKINTOSH ADMIRES JONAH.
"I think, Matilda, that you must have neglected to put any sugar in my tea," said the Bishop of Blanford, pushing his cup towards his sister, after tasting the first mouthful.
"You're quite right, Josephus, I did," she replied.
"And," continued his Lordship, who, being near-sighted, was poking about, after the manner of a mole, in the three-storied brass bird-cage which held the more substantial portion of the repast, "there doesn't seem to be any cake."
"You forget," said Miss Matilda sternly, "that it's an ember-day."
Her brother said nothing, and took a mouthful of the tea, which, like the morality of the palace, was strong and bitter.
But his ample chest expanded with just the slightest sigh of regret, causing the massive episcopal cross of gold filigree, set with a single sapphire, which rested thereon, to rise and fall gently.
Miss Matilda's hawklike eye saw and noted this as the first slight sign of rebellion, and she hastened to mete out justice swift and stern, saying:

"You remember, Josephus, that there's a special service at the mission church at five, at which I consider you ought to be present."
His Lordship had not forgotten it, or the circumstance that the afternoon was exceedingly hot, and that the mission church, which was situated in an outlying slum, was made of corrugated tin.
The palace garden would have been infinitely preferable, and he knew that had he accepted sugarless tea without a murmur, his chaplain would have sweltered in his place.
As it was, he submitted meekly, and his sister gazed at him with a satisfied expression of triumph across her bright green tea-cloth.
If Miss Matilda had a weakness, it was for ecclesiastical tea-cloths.
White was reserved for Sundays and feast-days; on ordinary occasions, at this time of the year, her ritual prescribed green.
They were seated in the garden of the palace, a peaceful Arcadia which it was difficult to realise was only separated from a dusty and concrete world by a battlemented wall which formed the horizon.
The sky overhead was so blue and cloudless that it might have formed the background for an Italian landscape, and framed against it was the massive tower of the cathedral, its silver-greys darkening almost to black, as a buttress here and there brought it in shadow.
Among its pinnacles a few wise old rooks flapped lazily in the still air, as much a part of their surroundings as the stately swans that floated on the stream which lapped the foot of the tower, while on all sides there stretched away a great sweep of that perfect verdure which only England knows.
"It's nearly two months since I last wrote to Cecil," said the Bishop, judging it wise to change the trend of the conversation, "and I've not heard a word."
"I'm sure I should be surprised if you had," snapped Miss Matilda.
"And what your sainted Sarah would have felt, had she lived to see her son's disgraceful career, makes me shudder."
The Bishop started to sigh again.
Then, thinking better of it, stopped.
He had returned to Blanford from his rest-cure a week before, and apparently the air of Scotland had not proved as beneficial as he had expected.
"I believe that Cecil will come back to us," he said, ignoring his sister's last remark.
"I told him that his friends would be welcome here in future, and I particularly mentioned that you'd put a copy of his book in your last missionary box."
"I hope you didn't neglect to say that I tore out all the pictures.
A more scandalous collection--"

But she never finished her denunciation of the novel, for just at that moment the Bishop sprang to his feet with a glad cry of "Cecil!"
The young man came running across the lawn to meet his father, seizing him warmly by the hand, and having administered a dutiful peck to his aunt, turned to introduce the little group of strangers who had accompanied him.
"Father," he said, "these are my friends.
On the strength of your letter I've taken the liberty of asking them to be my guests as well."
"They're very welcome to the palace," said the Bishop.
Cecil turned, and leading the two ladies forward, presented them to his father and his aunt.
Miss Matilda swept them both with a comprehensive glance, and addressing Mrs. Mackintosh, remarked:

"Your daughter, I presume," indicating Miss Arminster.
Whereupon the good lady coloured violently and denied the fact.
"Your niece?"
insisted Miss Matilda, who was an excellent catechist, as generations of unfortunate children could bear witness.
"A young lady whom I'm chaperoning in Europe," replied Mrs. Mackintosh stiffly, in an effort to be truthful, and at the same time to furnish Violet with a desirable status in the party.
The tragedian was now brought forward.
"Allow me," said Banborough, in pursuance of a prearranged scheme of action--"allow me to introduce my friend Professor Tybalt Smith.
You, father, are of course acquainted with his scholarly work on monumental brasses."
The Bishop naturally was not conversant with the book in question, because it had never been written, but he was entirely too pedantic to admit the fact; so he smiled, and congratulated the Professor most affably on what he termed "his well-known attainments," assuring him that he would find in the cathedral a rich field of research in his particular line of work.
Spotts was now brought up, and introduced as a rising young architect of ecclesiastical tendencies, which delighted his Lordship immensely as there was nothing he liked better than to explain every detail of his cathedral to an appreciative listener.
"I've a bit of old dog-tooth I shall want you to look at to-morrow," said his host, "and there's some Roman tiling in the north transept that absolutely demands your attention."
Spotts smiled assent, but was evidently bewildered, and seizing the first opportunity that offered, asked Cecil in a low voice if his father took him for a dentist or a mason.
"For a dentist or a mason?"
queried Banborough.
"I don't understand."
"Well, anyway, he said something about looking after his old dog's teeth and attending to his tiles."
Cecil exploded in a burst of laughter, saying:

"That's only the architectural jargon, man.
You must play the game."
"Oh, I see," said the actor.
"It's about his ramshackle old church.
Well, I'll do my best--" But his assurances were cut short by the flow of his Lordship's conversation.
"As I was saying, Mr. Spotts," he continued, "I should be much interested to hear your American views on the subject of a clerestory."
"Sure," replied the actor, plunging recklessly.
"I always believe in having four clear stories at least, and in New York and Chicago we run 'em up as high as--" But here a premonitory kick from Cecil brought his speech to an abrupt termination.
"Most astonishing," commented his Lordship.
"I've never heard of more than one."
"Oh, our Western churches are chock-full of new wrinkles."
"Of new--what?
I don't understand.
Another cup' of tea for you, Mrs. Mackintosh?
Certainly.
We must pursue this subject at leisure, Mr.
Spotts."
The party now turned their attention to the repast, and the Bishop proceeded to devote himself to Mrs. Mackintosh.
"I'm afraid," he said, when he had seen her sufficiently fortified with tea containing a due allowance of sugar, and supplemented by a plateful of cake which he had ordered to be brought as a practical substitute for the scriptural calf--"I'm afraid you will find our simple life at Blanford very dull."
"Dear sakes, no!"
said that lady, hitching her chair up closer to the Bishop for a confidential chat--an action on her part which elicited a flashing glance of disapproval from Miss Matilda.
"I've heard all about you," she went on, "from your son Cecil.
You don't mind if I call him Cecil, do you?
for I'm almost old enough to be his mother.
Well, as I was saying, when he told me about the cathedral and the beeches and the rooks and you, all being here, hundreds of years old--"

"Excuse me, madam," said his Lordship, "I'm hardly as aged as that."
"Of course I didn't mean you, stupid!
How literal you English are!"
It is highly probable that in all the sixty years of his well-ordered existence the Bishop of Blanford had never been called "stupid" by anybody.
He gasped, and the episcopal cross, and even the heavy gold chain by which it depended from his neck, were unduly agitated.
Then he decided that he liked it, and determined to continue the conversation.
"When I thought of all that," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "I said to your son: 'Cecil,' said I, 'your father's like that old board fence in my back yard; he needs a coat of whitewash to freshen him up, and I'm going over to put it on.'"
"Cromwell," remarked the Bishop, "applied enough whitewash to Blanford to last it for several centuries.
Indeed, we've not succeeded in restoring all the frescoes yet."
"Nonsense, man," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "you don't see the point at all.
Now what do you take when your liver's out of order?"
"Really, madam," faltered the Bishop, thoroughly aghast at this new turn in the conversation, "I--er--generally consult my medical adviser."
"Well, you shouldn't!"
said Mrs. Mackintosh with determination.
"You should take what we call in my country a pick-me-up.
Now I said to your son: 'I'm going to be a mental and moral pick-me-up for your father.
What he needs is a new point of view.
If you don't take care, he'll fossilise, and you'll have to put him in the British Museum.'"
The Bishop's reflections during this conversation were many and varied.
What he was pleased to term his inner moral consciousness told him he ought to be shocked at its flippancy; the rest of his mental make-up was distinctly refreshed.
Besides, a certain tension in the social atmosphere suggested that Miss Matilda was about to go forth to battle, so he smiled graciously, saying:

"It's certainly very considerate of you to undertake all this on my account, but I should not like to be in any one's debt, and I hardly see how I can repay my obligations."
"I'm just coming to that," said Mrs. Mackintosh.
"I don't say that I shouldn't be doing a Christian act by taking you in hand, but I'm free to admit that I've a personal interest in the matter, for you're the one man in England I most wanted to meet."
"But what can there possibly be about me--" began the Bishop.
"It isn't about you," replied his guest.
"It's about Jonah."
"Josephus," broke in the harsh voice of his sister, "the bell of the mission chapel has been ringing for some time."
The Bishop drew a long breath and formed a mighty resolve.
At last he had met a person who took an intelligent interest in Jonah, a Biblical character to whose history he had devoted exhaustive research.
It was a golden opportunity not to be let slip.
So, turning to his sister and looking her squarely in the eyes, he replied boldly that he was quite aware of the fact.
"If you do not go at once you'll be late," remarked that lady.
"I've not the slightest intention of going at all," said the Bishop.
"I'm talking to Mrs. Mackintosh, who is, it seems, much interested in Jonah."
There came a sound as of spluttering from the upraised tea-cup of Professor Tybalt Smith, and Miss Matilda gave a distinctly aggressive sniff.
"If you're not going, Josephus," she retorted, "I must send word to one of the chaplains, though after what you had said I naturally--" But there she paused, arrested by the incredible fact that for the first time in her experience her brother was not listening to what she was saying.
Her silence commanded his attention.
"Oh," he replied, looking up vacantly, "do what you think proper," and turned again to Mrs. Mackintosh, who proceeded placidly with her theme.
"Of course," she said, "you hear a lot about seeing with the eye of faith, but I like to see with the eye of understanding, too, and I never yet sat under a preacher who was what I should call 'up to Jonah.'
I read your book when it came out.
It was one of the prizes they offered for selling on commission fifty packets of Tinker's Tannin Tea, and I've been wild to meet you ever since.
I have been a-whaling, so to speak, for years, but I expect you to carry me safely into port."
"Madam," said the Bishop, "you overwhelm me."
He was immensely flattered by her appreciative, if outspoken, commendation.
"I'm now," he continued, "at work on a set of supplementary sermons on this very subject; and if it wouldn't be imposing too much on your good nature to let me read them to you, or parts of them--they embrace some six hundred pages."
Mrs. Mackintosh looked at him regretfully.
"Isn't there any more than that?"
she said.
"I wanted three volumes at least."
The Bishop beamed with gratification.
"I trust," he replied, "that they'll be worthy of your attention.
But my treatment of the subject is--er--slightly doctrinal, and perhaps you're not a member of the Church of England."
"Well, no," said Mrs. Mackintosh.
"I can't say as I am.
I was baptised a Methodist, brought up in a Roman Catholic convent, finished at a Presbyterian boarding-school, and married before a Justice of the Peace to a Unitarian, and since I've been a widow I've attended a Baptist church regularly; but I don't believe I'd mind a few weeks of an Episcopalian, specially seeing he's a Bishop, which I haven't experienced before."
"I shall endeavour to do my best, madam," said his Lordship.
"Perhaps I may even lead you--in time--"

"Well, I shouldn't be surprised but what you might," replied Mrs. Mackintosh, "but I mustn't take up all your time.
I want you to know my little friend Miss Arminster.
She's one of the nicest girls that ever was."
"I shall be delighted," said his Lordship.
"Arminster," he continued reflectively.
"Does she come from the Arminsters of Shropshire?"
Mrs. Mackintosh laughed.
"I'm sure I don't know," she replied, "but from the way her friends speak of her, you'd think she came from Noah's Ark."
"Dear me!"
said the Bishop.
"That's very curious."
"They call her the Leopard," she went on, "and I must say for my part that I'm 'most as fond of the Leopard as I am of Jonah's whale."
And she rose and joined the group about the tea-table, for she did not wish to try Miss Matilda's patience too far.
"I don't know what you'll think of our quiet life.
I fear it'll seem very strange to you," said his Lordship, addressing himself to Miss Arminster.
"I think it'll be jolly," she replied promptly, looking up at him playfully to see whether he would bear chaffing, "and," she added, after due deliberation, "I think you're a dear, and your uniform is just sweet.
I always did love a uniform.
I used to be awfully gone, as a child, on a policeman at the corner of our block, but you're much more nicely dressed than he was."
His Lordship started to say something crushing in regard to the sanctity of ecclesiastical trappings, but another glance at the bewitching little figure that confronted him caused him to remark instead that he was glad she approved of him, and that he would try to take better care of her than even a guardian of the law.
"Oh, I'm afraid I've said something shocking!"
she exclaimed in a delightfully naive manner, "and I did mean to be so good and decorous.
I'm sure I'll need a lot of teaching."
"I shall be delighted to undertake the task," he replied gallantly.
"Suppose we begin by going to evensong.
Would you like to do so?"
"Rather," she returned; "but I'm afraid," looking at her travelling-costume, "that I'm hardly dressed for the part--I mean the occasion."
"Dear me!"
said the Bishop, scrutinizing her keenly, "it seems to be a very pretty gown."
"Oh, that's all right," she said.
"Then we'll go at once."
"So we shall," he replied, "and you shall sit in the stalls."
"How jolly!"
she exclaimed.
"I almost always have to sit in the balcony."
"Really?"
said his Lordship.
"You don't say so.
But from what Mr. Spotts says, I should judge that the architecture of American churches was novel."
And they walked across the lawn to the cathedral.
A few moments later, Miss Matilda, having dismissed her guests to their rooms, found herself alone with her nephew.
"Well," she said, turning on him sharply, "perhaps at last you'll condescend to tell me who these _friends_ of yours are?"
"They're a party of ladies and gentlemen with whom I've been travelling in America," Cecil replied.
"And as we'd agreed to join forces for the rest of the summer, I'd no option but to invite them here as my guests.
The gentlemen I've already introduced to you--"

"Oh, the gentlemen!"
snapped his aunt.
"I've no concern about them.
It's the women I--"

"The ladies, Aunt Matilda."
"The ladies, then.
Your father, in what he is pleased to call his wisdom, has seen fit to allow you to introduce these persons into his house.
I'm sure I hope he won't regret it!
But I must insist on knowing something about the people whom I'm entertaining."
"As I've told you already," he replied very quietly, "they're ladies whom I've met in America.
I might also add that they've good manners and are uniformly courteous."
Miss Matilda tilted her nose till its tip pointed straight at the spire of the cathedral, and, without any reply, swept past him into the house.
Dinner, that night, in spite of his aunt's efforts to the contrary, was an unqualified success.
The Bishop hailed with joy any interruption in the monotony of his daily life, and made himself most agreeable, while his guests seconded him to the best of their ability.
The meal being over, his Lordship proposed a rubber of whist, a relaxation of which he was very fond, but which, in the reduced state of his family, he was seldom able to enjoy.
Mrs. Mackintosh and Smith, as the two best players of the party, expressed themselves as willing to take a hand, and Miss Matilda made up the fourth.
"You'll excuse me," said his Lordship apologetically to Mrs. Mackintosh, "if we play only for threepenny points.
Were I a curate I could play for sixpence, but in my position the stakes are necessarily limited."
"You don't ever mean to say," exclaimed the old lady, "that you're a gambling Bishop!"
"My brother," interrupted Miss Matilda, "is a pattern of upright living to his day and generation.
But of course if you're incapable of understanding the difference between a sinful wager of money and the few pence necessary to keep up the interest of the game--"

"Gambling is gambling, to my mind," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "whether you play for dollars or doughnuts!"
"The point seems well taken," remarked the Bishop meditatively.
"It's certainly never struck me in that light before; but if you think--"

"I think," said the old lady decidedly, "that it's lucky for you that there are no whales in Blanford!"
Miss Matilda threw down her cards.
"If I'm to be called a gambler under my own brother's roof," she said, "I shall refuse to play.
Besides I've a headache."
And she rose majestically from the table.
"But, my dear," began the Bishop meekly, "if we cannot find a fourth hand--"

"If Miss Banborough doesn't feel up to playing," came the sweet tones of Violet's voice, "I'll be delighted to take her place."
And a moment later she was ensconced at the table.
The Bishop's sister retired to a corner with the largest and most aggressive volume of sermons she could find, and sniffed loudly at intervals all the evening.
And when at ten o'clock, in response to the summons of an impressive functionary clad in black and bearing a wand surmounted by a silver cross, the little party filed out to evening devotions in the chapel, Miss Matilda gathered her skirts around her as if she feared contagion.
"I'm afraid of that old cat," Mrs. Mackintosh confided to Violet, when they had reached the haven of their apartments.
"I'm sure she suspects us already; and if we're not careful, she'll find us out."
CHAPTER II.
IN WHICH THE ENEMY ARRIVES.
"I say, boss," remarked the tramp, as he paused for a moment in the process of stuffing himself to repletion with cold game-pie, "this is a rum trip, and no mistake."
"What's that got to do with you?"
retorted Marchmont sharply, appropriating the remaining fragments of the pasty to his own use.
The two men were seated in the shady angle of a ruined buttress, a portion of a stately abbey, which in pre-Norman days had flourished at a spot some half-dozen miles from the site of Blanford.
"Well," said the tramp, "if this ain't a wild-goose chase I dunno what you calls it.
Here you've gone an' took me away from my happy home, an' brought me across the ragin' Atlantic, an' dumped me in a moth-eaten little village where there ain't nothin' fit to drink, all because I happened to chum with a Bishop."
"You seem to forget," said Marchmont, "that it was you who came to me, offering to sell your friends and their secrets for a sufficient remuneration."
"So I did," said the tramp; "but it was revenge, that's what it was--revenge.
I was deserted in a furrin land, with just my board-bill paid, and not a penny to bless myself with."
"Ah," said Marchmont.
"That's the reason, I suppose, why you came from Montreal to New York in a parlour car."
The tramp sighed despondently, saying:

"Now whoever told you that, boss?"
"Nobody.
I found the Pullman check in your coat-pocket when I was looking for my diamond ring, which you'd absent-mindedly placed there."
"Humph!"
replied the other.
"There ain't no foolin' you!"
"I should be a pretty poor journalist if there were," said his employer.
"Now give me the story again, and see if you can get it straight."
"Well, there ain't nothin' much to tell, 'cept I was carried off by them Spanish conspirators in mistake for a lady, which I in no-wise resembles, an' the bloke as was the head of the gang was allus called the Bishop, and a pretty rum Bishop he was."
"Never mind about his qualifications," interrupted Marchmont shortly; adding to himself, "That explains his son's presence in Montreal."
"Well, this Bishop," continued the tramp, "used to talk about his palace at Blanford; and when the party give me the go-by, I gathered from the porter as took their traps that they'd gone to England; and the elevator-boy, he heard the Bishop say to the little actress as they'd be as safe at the palace as they would anywhere.
And then I come on to New York and blew it into you."
"Yes," said Marchmont, "and I've given you a first-class passage to England, paid your board and lodging, and kept you full for the best part of three weeks; and what do I get out of it?"
"I admit as we haven't had much results as yet," said the tramp.
"But now things is goin' to hum.
The Bishop and his whole gang's coming over to these very ruins to-day."
"How did you find that out?"
demanded the journalist.
"Footman up to the palace told me.
I give him a little jamboree last night at the 'Three Jolly Sailor-boys.'"
"Yes, and had to be carried home dead-drunk.
Nice one you are to keep a secret."
"Well, I was only a-doin' me duty," said the tramp in an aggrieved tone of voice, "and if they don't know you're after 'em, and you should happen to be inspectin' the ruins at the same time as they are, you could get chummy with 'em without half tryin'."
"I'll attend to that," said the newspaper man.
"I've just had a cable from the _Daily Leader_ telling me to hustle if I want to get that position, and I've got to do something, and do it quick.
But it'll never do for you to be seen.
Once they know we're together, the game's up.
I can't have you larking round with the servants either.
You'll spoil the whole show.
You've got to go back to Dullhampton this afternoon."
"What!
that little one-horse fishing-town?"
"Yes, that's where you're wanted.
It's the nearest port to Blanford, and it's where they'll try and get out of the country if they're hard pressed.
You just stay there and keep your eyes open till you hear from me."
The tramp growled surlily, and reluctantly prepared to obey.
"Now, then," said Marchmont shortly, "get a move on.
Yes, you can take the provender with you.
It'll help to keep your mouth shut."
As the tramp slouched round the corner and out of sight, his master stretched himself comfortably on the ground, and supporting his head on one arm, with his straw hat tilted over his eyes to protect them from the sun, he proceeded to go peacefully to sleep.
Scarcely had the journalist composed himself to slumber, when the ruins were invaded by the party from the palace.
It was now about a month since Cecil and his friends had arrived at Blanford, and though this expedition to the old abbey had been often discussed, one thing and another had intervened to prevent its being put into execution.
After her first burst of antagonism, Miss Matilda had settled down to a formal hospitality which was, if anything, more disconcerting.
Tybalt Smith alone had achieved a favourable position in her eyes, and this only as the result of a very considerable amount of flattery and attention.
At first his friends were at a loss to account for his attitude, but as time went on it appeared that the tragedian had not exerted himself for nothing.
"The dear Professor" frequently had his breakfast in bed when he was too lazy to get up, and Miss Matilda considered the delicate state of his health required the daily stimulus of a pint of champagne.
He also had the exclusive use of her victoria in the afternoon, and even if this did necessitate an occasional attendance at missionary meetings and penny readings, it was after all but a fair return for value received.
On this occasion he had begged off going to the picnic, and was spending a luxurious day at the palace, waited on by the Bishop's sister.
The party, having arrived at the abbey, promptly separated to explore the ruins, his Lordship gallantly offering to play the part of cicerone to the ladies.
Miss Violet, however, for reasons of her own, preferred seclusion and a quiet chat with Spotts to any amount of architectural antiquities, so her host was enabled to devote his entire time to Mrs. Mackintosh.
"Does it strike you," remarked the Bishop, a few moments later, pausing in his wanderings to inspect critically a fragment of Roman brick--"does it strike you how absolutely peaceful this spot is?"
"Well," returned Mrs. Mackintosh, "I don't know as it does.
I should have said your palace was about as good a sample of all-round peacefulness as there is going."
"Ha," said his Lordship, "it hadn't occurred to me."
"That's just like you men.
You never know when you're well off.
Now with your palace and Jonah you ought to be content."
The Bishop sighed.
"Dear lady," he said, "I admit my faults.
The palace I indeed possess temporarily, but Jonah--ah, what would Jonah be without you!
If I have left my work once in the past month to ask your advice, I have left it a hundred times."
"You have," admitted Mrs. Mackintosh with decision.
"Then it is to you that Jonah owes his debt of gratitude, not to me.
You have lightened my labour in more senses of the word than one."
"Well, I've had a very pleasant visit.
Blanford's a little paradise."
The Bishop sighed again, and remarked:

"Paradise I have always regarded as being peaceful."
"Yes," acquiesced his companion reflectively, "with all that Jonah went through, I don't remember as he had an unmarried sister."
There was silence for a moment, and then his Lordship abruptly changed the subject.
"What a charming, bright, fresh young life is Miss Arminster's!
She dances through the world like--like--er--" And he paused for a simile.
"Like a grasshopper," suggested Mrs. Mackintosh, with marked disapproval in her tones.
The Bishop had a trivial, not to say frivolous, strain in his nature which seemed to her hardly in accord with his exalted position.
"No, dear lady," objected his Lordship, "not a grasshopper.
Decidedly not a grasshopper; say--like a ray of sunshine."
"Violet's a good girl," remarked his companion, "a very good girl, but in most things she is still a child, and the serious side of life doesn't appeal to her.
I dare say she'd go to sleep if you read to her about Jonah."
"She did," admitted the Bishop; "but then of course," he added, wishing to palliate the offence, "it was a very hot day.
I suppose, however, you are right.
Serious things do not interest her--and that is--I should say--we are serious."
"I am," said Mrs. Mackintosh, "and at your time of life you ought to be; and if we stand here any longer looking at that chunk of brick in the broiling sun, we'll both be as red as a couple of beets."
No amount of sentiment could be proof against a statement of this sort, and they moved on.
Violet and Spotts had meantime sat themselves down on a convenient tombstone to while away the interval till luncheon was served.
"There are lots of things I want to talk to you about, Alvy," began the little actress, "and I never get the chance."
"Well, fire away," he replied.
"You've got it now."
"In the first place," she said, "I don't like the way things are going here."
"At the palace, you mean?"
"Yes.
We're not aboveboard.
We're shamming all the while.
Besides, we're doing nothing in our profession."
"It's better than doing time in prison."
"It isn't straightforward, and I don't like it," she went on.
"Neither do I," he returned; "but there are other things I like less."
"Such as?"
"Well, people falling in love with you, for instance."
"Oh, Cecil.
He received his _conge_ before we left America."
"I said _people_."
"You don't mean the Bishop?"
Spotts nodded.
"But he's such a dear funny old thing!"
she cried.
"What's that got to do with it?"
"Why, he might be my grandfather."
"He's as frisky as a two-year-old," remarked the actor.
"And finally," continued Violet, not noticing the interruption, "his old cat of a sister wouldn't let him."
"Worms have turned, and straws have broken camels' backs before now," persisted Spotts.
"Don't you call me names, sir!
Worms and straws, indeed!
What next, I should like to know!"
"If you don't take care, you'll be called his _Lordship's_ 'leopard.'"
She burst out laughing.
"Nonsense!"
she cried.
"Why, I actually believe you're becoming jealous."
"Not a bit of it," he said.
"I'd trust you, little girl, through thick and thin."
"I know you would, Alvy, and I'd rather marry you--well, ten times, before I'd marry a lord or a bishop once."
"I know it, old girl, I know it!"
cried Spotts ecstatically, and slipped his arm round her waist.
"Oh, do be careful," she protested.
"Just think, if any one should see us!
I'm sure I heard a footstep behind us."
They looked up, and saw Cecil above them, standing on the sill of an old ruined window.
He had not heard their words, but he had seen Spotts's embrace, and realised bitterly how little chance he stood against such a combination of Apollo and Roscius.
The month which had intervened since his return to Blanford had not been an altogether happy time for the Bishop's son.
The pain of Miss Arminster's refusal still rankled within him, and that young lady's actions had not done much to soothe it.
Had she comported herself with a resigned melancholy, he could have borne his own sufferings with fortitude.
But, on the contrary, she had, he considered, flirted most outrageously with Mr. Spotts.
Indeed Cecil was already strongly of the opinion that the actor was trying to succeed where he had failed--a course of action which he thought quite justifiable on his, Banborough's, part, but highly reprehensible on the part of any one else.
Matters had now culminated.
Fate had brought the three together at this inopportune moment, and as it was manifestly impossible not to say something, Cecil laid himself out to be agreeable, and Miss Arminster, who was naturally aware of the awkwardness of his position, did her best to promote conversation, while Spotts almost immediately cut the Gordian knot by excusing himself on the plea of looking after the lunch.
"Well," she said, "what's the latest news from Spain?"
"It seems to me that the war must be almost over," he replied.
"Now that Santiago's fallen, and Cervera's fleet's destroyed, Spain has no alternative but to yield."
"Ah," she murmured, "then we'll be free once more."
"Has your exile been so irksome to you?"
he asked.
"Oh," she returned, "I didn't mean it that way, really.
Believe me, I'm not ungrateful.
Blanford's just sweet, and your father's an old dear."
"Yes," he retorted, laughing.
"I notice you're doing your best to usurp Mrs. Mackintosh's place in his affections."
"That's not from pique, it's from charity," she replied.
"I've been trying to rescue her from Jonah."
"I'm afraid my governor must be an awful bore," he said.
"Oh, but he's so sweet and simple with it all," she objected.
"I'm really growing to be awfully fond of him."
"I think he's growing to be awfully fond of _you_," said his son.
Miss Arminster laughed merrily.
"Don't you fancy me as a step-mamma?"
she queried.
"But, joking apart, I'm afraid even Blanford would pall on me after a while.
It isn't my first visit here, you see.
I was on a tour through these counties three years ago."
"That's how you came to know about my father, I suppose."
"Yes," she said.
"I had him pointed out to me, and you look a good deal alike.
Besides, the name's not common."
"I'm glad you liked Blanford well enough to come back to it."
"Oh," she returned, looking up at him with a roguish smile, "this section of the country has other associations for me."
"I was waiting for that," he retorted.
"In which of the neighbouring towns were you married?"
"The one nearest here," she replied.
"I think we can just see the spire of the church over the trees.
But how did you know?"
"I inferred it as a matter of course," he said banteringly, "but I'm only joking."
"But I'm not," she returned.
"Do you really mean that you were married over there?"
he asked, pointing to the distant church.
"Yes," she replied.
"The third of June, 1895."
"I say, you know," he said, "I think you might have married me once in a way, as I had asked you."
"Mr. Banborough," she replied stiffly, drawing herself up, "you forget yourself."
"I beg your pardon," he returned humbly.
"Only as American divorce laws are so lax, I thought--"

"The divorce laws of my country are a disgrace, and nothing would ever induce me to avail myself of them.
Besides, marriage, to me, is a very serious and solemn matter, and I can't permit you to speak about it flippantly, even by way of a joke."
Cecil picked up a handful of pebbles and began throwing them meditatively at the fragment of an adjacent arch.
The more he saw of Miss Arminster, the greater mystery she became.
By her own admission, she had been married at least half a dozen times, which, were he to accept as real the high moral standard which she always assumed, must imply a frightful mortality among her husbands.
But then she neither seemed flippant nor shallow, and her serious attitude towards the sacrament of marriage appeared wholly incompatible with a matrimonial experience which might have caused a Mormon to shudder.
Anyway, she wasn't going to marry him, and he turned to the discussion of more fruitful subjects.
"How's Spotts getting on with his studies in architecture?"
he asked.
"I should think he'd learned a good deal," she replied.
"Your father hasn't left a stone of his own cathedral unexplained, and I imagine he'll put him through his paces over this abbey."
"Poor Spotts!
I'm afraid he's had a hard row to hoe," said Cecil; "but, anyway, it'll keep him out of mischief."
"You must be very careful what you say about him to me," she replied.
"I won't hear one word against him, for we're very old friends."
"So I should infer," he retorted, "from what I've just seen.
_I_ never was allowed to put _my_ arm--"

"How dare you!"
she cried, rising, really angry this time.
"I--" Then turning to the Bishop, who arrived very opportunely, she exclaimed:

"Won't you rescue me, please?
Your son's becoming awfully impertinent!"
"Then," said his Lordship gallantly, "my son must be taught better manners.
If he cannot show himself worthy of such a charming companion, we'll punish him by leaving him entirely alone."
Certainly his father was coming on, thought Cecil.
But if Miss Arminster tried to take advantage of his dotage to forge another link in her matrimonial chain, he, Banborough, would have a word to say on the subject.
"I wish to tell you, my dear," began his Lordship as they walked away, leaving Cecil disconsolate, "of a very nice invitation I've received for the rest of the week.
Lord Downton is to call for me in his yacht at Dullhampton to-morrow, and has asked me to join his party and to bring some lady with me to make the number even."
"Oh, how jolly that'll be--for Miss Matilda!"
said the artful Violet.
"Humph!--ye-es," replied the Bishop.
"I hardly think my sister could leave the palace just at this time."
"Perhaps," suggested his guest, "yachting doesn't agree with her.
Has she ever tried it before?"
"She has," replied the Bishop, with a certain asperity.
"Ah, poor thing!"
said Miss Arminster.
"It must have taken away from your pleasure to feel that she was suffering such great discomfort on your account."
"Lord Downton didn't specify my sister.
He only said 'some lady'; and so I thought if you--"

"Oh, that's just sweet of you!"
exclaimed his companion.
"I'm sure I should adore yachting.
It's something I've always wanted to do."
"Then we'll consider it settled," said the Bishop.
"But Miss Matilda?"
"Ah, yes," admitted his Lordship.
"That's just the trouble.
You see my dilemma."
"Of course!"
Violet responded promptly, understanding that he wished to be helped out.
"If your sister knew you were going, she'd feel it her duty to accompany you, and the trip would be spoilt for you by her sufferings.
So, out of your affection for her, you think it would be better if we were just quietly to slip off to-morrow and send her a wire from Dullhampton."
The Bishop was delighted.
Miss Matilda never accepted him at his own valuation.
"So, just on your account," continued his companion demurely, "I won't say a word, though I hate any form of concealment."
"H'm--naturally," said the Bishop.
"But since it's for your dear sister's sake--"

"We'll take the eleven-fifty train to-morrow," replied his Lordship.
And here his remarks were cut short from the fact that in suddenly rounding a corner he had planted his foot on the recumbent form of Marchmont.
"Hullo!"
said that gentleman, sitting up, and adding, as he rubbed his eyes to get them wider open, "permit me to inform you that this part of the ground is strictly preserved."
"Who are you, sir?"
demanded the Bishop.
"Come," said the stranger cheerfully, "we'll make a bargain.
I'll tell you who you are, if you'll tell me who I am."
"I do not see how that is possible--" began his Lordship.
"Well, I'll begin," said Marchmont.
"You're the Bishop of Blanford and I'm your son's greatest benefactor."
"Really, you surprise me.
May I enquire how you've benefited him?"
"I made the fame of his book, 'The Purple Kangaroo.'
I've been sending you my editorials on the subject for some weeks past."
"Are you the person who wrote those scandalous leaders which have been forwarded to me from America?"
demanded the Bishop.
"I thought you'd remember them," said the journalist.
"They're eye-openers, aren't they?"
His Lordship drew himself up and put on his most repressive manner, but Marchmont babbled on serenely.
"The last time I saw Cecil he said to me: 'Whenever you come to England, Marchmont, you just drop round to the palace, and we'll make things hum.'
So, having a chance for a little vacation, I jumped on board a steamer, crossed to Southampton, and biked up-country, doing these ruins on the way.
I meant to have presented myself at the palace this afternoon in due form and a swallow-tailed coat, but I'm just as much pleased to see you as if I'd been regularly introduced."
"You're one of the most consummate liars I ever knew," remarked Cecil, who, hearing voices, had strolled over to see what it was all about.
"Put it more mildly, my dear fellow," replied the American.
"Call me a journalist, and spare your father's feelings."
"Well, now you're here, what do you intend to do?"
demanded Banborough.
"Do?"
said Marchmont.
"Why, I'm going to put up for a week at your 'Pink Pig,' or your 'Azure Griffin,' or whatever kind of nondescript-coloured animal your local hostelry boasts, and study your charming cathedral.
But, in the first place, I think we'd better have some lunch.
I'm as hungry as a bear."
"I fear we've scarcely provided for an extra guest," returned Cecil frigidly.
The journalist was the very last person he wanted to see at Blanford, and he did not take any pains to disguise the fact.
Marchmont, however, was not to be snubbed, and remarking cheerfully that there was always enough for one more, calmly proceeded in the direction of the hampers.
Once there, he constituted himself chef and butler forthwith, and moreover proved so efficient in both capacities that, irritated as his friend was at his self-assurance, he could not but express his appreciation.
Marchmont, having started the rest of the people on their lunch and made all feel at their ease, turned on his journalistic tap for the benefit of the Bishop, and plied the old gentleman with such a judicious mixture of flattery and amusing anecdote that, by the time the repast was over, his Lordship was solemnly assuring his son, much to that young gentleman's disgust, that he was indeed fortunate in possessing such a delightful friend, and that he might invite Mr. Marchmont to the palace if he liked.
"Quite so," said Cecil.
"I suppose you remember his article in the _Daily Leader_, in which he alluded to you as a 'consecrated fossil'?"
"H'm!"
said the Bishop.
"Really, the accommodation at the inn is very good, and perhaps, with so many guests, it would be asking too much of your aunt."
"What does all this mean?"
asked Spotts of Banborough when a convenient opportunity offered.
The Bishop's son shrugged his shoulders, replying:

"It means mischief."
CHAPTER III.
IN WHICH PEACE IS PROPOSED AND WAR DECLARED.
Marchmont stood on the lawn before the palace, on the morning after his arrival, critically inspecting that structure; his feet stretched wide apart, his hands in his pockets, and his hat on the back of his head.
Cecil, emerging from breakfast, sighted his enemy and made haste to join him.
"Jolly old rookery you've got," remarked the reporter.
"Yes," said Banborough.
"It was a monastery originally.
They turned it into a bishop's palace about the reign of Henry VIII."
"I know that style," said the American.
"Nice rambling ark, two stories high, and no two rooms on the same level.
Architect built right out into the country till he got tired, and then turned round and came back.
Obliged to have a valet to show you to your room whether you're sober or not."
"I didn't know," said Cecil drily, "that you possessed an extensive acquaintance in ecclesiastical circles in this country."
"Oh, yes," said Marchmont, "I served as valet for six months to a bishop while I was gathering materials for my articles on 'English Sees Seen from the Inside.'"
"Was it a financial success?"
queried Banborough.
"No," admitted the reporter regretfully, "it sold the paper splendidly, but was stopped at the second article at the request of the American ambassador."
"Did you favour us with a visit?"
"I hadn't that honour."
"If you had done so you would probably have slept in the rooms we give to our American guests in the new part of the house."
"How old is that?"
queried the journalist.
"About eight hundred years," replied Cecil, "and the walls are four feet thick."
"I know," said the reporter, "It's appalling.
That sort of thing always upsets me.
It seems so out of keeping with the _Daily Leader_."
"Look here, Marchmont, why have you come to Blanford?"
demanded Banborough, abruptly changing the conversation.
"To have the joy of your society," returned the journalist.
"If that were really the case I'd be delighted to see you," said the Englishman.
"But you're on the track of these unfortunate people who are my guests; and if you make things disagreeable for them I shan't have the slightest compunction in forbidding you the house."
The American, apparently ignoring the other's frankness, remarked:

"So you admit they're conspirators?"
"I admit nothing of the kind.
They're perfectly innocent of the charge you bring against them, and you've been making an awful ass of yourself, if you only knew it."
"Ah, thank you.
But if this is the case why didn't you mention the fact to me in Montreal?"
"I had my reasons."
"And why are all these people received as honoured guests in your father's palace?"
"That, if you'll permit me to say so, Marchmont, is a matter that doesn't concern you."
"Everything concerns me.
Not that I expect you to see that point of view.
But to put it another way.
Considering all I've done to increase the sale of your book, won't you do me a good turn and tell me what you know about this affair?"
"I wish the confounded book had never sold a copy!"
burst out Banborough.
"And I'll not say one word to the detriment of my friends!"
"Then it _is_ to be war?"
queried the journalist, rolling a cigarette.
"Not so far as I'm concerned," replied his host.
"Why don't you let bygones be bygones?
A truce between the United States and Spain may be declared any day, and then--"

"Then my great scoop will be lost for ever.
What would the public care about conspirators if there were no war?"
"Exactly what I say," said Cecil.
"So let's drop the whole matter."
"Not much!"
cried the journalist.
"It's my last chance.
And if you won't help me--why, I must help myself."
"What do you wish me to do?"
"Turn 'em out of Blanford."
"Impossible!"
"But your father?"
"How dare you mention my father's name in this connection?
I won't have him dragged into publicity to sell your dirty rag of a newspaper!"
Cecil exploded, thoroughly beside himself at the thought of such a dreadful possibility.
The journalist nodded his head gravely.
Banborough's fierce defence of the Bishop he attributed to far other grounds than those on which it was really based.
It justified him to the tramp's suspicions that his Lordship was actually connected with the plot.
"Well," he said, with a fair pretence of backing down, "there's no need of getting so hot about it.
Of course I don't want to make myself disagreeable."
"Neither do I," replied his host.
"Only we may as well understand each other.
You're quite welcome to come to the palace as long as you remember to be a gentleman before you are a journalist.
But if you forget it, I'll be forced to treat you as you deserve," and turning on his heel, he left Marchmont chewing the ends of his sandy moustache with a grim avidity that boded ill for the peace of the Bishop and his household.
The American told himself that he must work carefully.
Banborough would watch him and probably put the others on their guard.
And moreover, he would not hesitate to dismiss him from the palace, which, apart from the unpleasantness of the operation, would be well-nigh fatal to the success of the scheme the journalist was maturing.
Decidedly the highest caution was essential, but he must work quickly, for there was no time to be lost.
Marchmont therefore proceeded to pump the first member of the company he came across.
This happened to be Spotts, who was in rather a bad humour, the result of a morning spent with the Bishop in the cobwebby heights of a neighbouring church-tower.
"You're the very person I wanted to see," cried the reporter.
"I'm afraid I've hardly time to be interviewed just now," replied the actor shortly.
"Oh, this isn't professional.
I'm off duty sometimes.
I'm only human."
"Oh, are you?
I supposed newspaper men were neither the one nor the other."
"Well, I wanted to talk to you for your own good."
"Is it as bad as all that?"
"Of course I know who you really are," pursued the journalist, ignoring the interruption.
"And I may say confidentially that you and Miss Arminster are not the people of this party I'm after."
"Ah, that's very thoughtful of you."
"So, if I could help you two to slip off quietly--"

"Why include Miss Arminster?"
queried Spotts with well-affected surprise.
"Why?
My dear fellow, you don't suppose I'm quite blind.
Any one who follows that lady about with his eyes as you do is naturally-- Well--you understand--"

"I'm afraid your professional acumen is at fault this time," said the actor, and added: "I hope I may never come any nearer being married than I am now."
"Oh, I say," returned Marchmont; "don't you aspire to be her--sixteenth, is it?"
"You're alluding to Miss Arminster's husbands?"
asked Spotts drily.
"Oh, I'd a little bet up with a friend," said Marchmont, "that she'd been married at least a baker's dozen times.
Ought I to hedge?"
"I think you're well inside the number," replied the actor.
"Gad!
she must be pretty well acquainted with the divorce courts!"
exclaimed the reporter.
"I'm quite sure she's never been divorced in her life," returned Spotts.
"So long.
I'm after a drink."
And he left him, thus terminating the conversation.
"Ah," said the journalist to himself, "I bet you're the next in line, just the same."
Baffled in his first attempt, Marchmont sought other means of information, for there is always a weak spot in every defence, and a man of far less keen perception than the reporter would have had little difficulty in finding the most favourable point of attack.
So it is not surprising that after a little cogitation he went in search of Miss Matilda, whom he had met the day before when he had returned with the party from the abbey.
He found that lady on the lawn knitting socks for the heathen, and deserted for the nonce by the faithful Smith.
"Dear Miss Banborough," began the journalist, sitting down beside her, "what a reproach it is to idle men like myself to see such industry!"
"It's very kind of you, I'm sure, to notice my humble labours," replied the old lady, expanding at once under the first word of flattery.
"My brother tells me you're connected with a great newspaper.
How ennobling that must be!
It gives you such a wide scope for doing good."
Marchmont, who had hardly adopted journalism for this purpose, and was conscious of having done his fair share of mischief in the world, made a desperate effort to look the part assigned to him, and murmuring something about the inspiration, to toilers like himself, of such self-sacrificing lives as hers, abruptly turned the conversation by alluding to the pleasure which she must have felt at her nephew's return.
"Of course we're very glad to have him back," acceded Miss Matilda.
"But then we see little or nothing of him."
"Naturally," said the journalist, "his days must be given up to his friends.
How you must be looking forward to the time when you can have him quite to yourself!"
The gleam that came into the old lady's eye at this remark told him that he had not been mistaken in fancying her hostile to the strangers, and he hastened to continue such a fruitful theme, saying:

"I suppose that, as they've been here a month now, you'll be losing them soon."
"I can't say," she snapped.
"They seem to be staying for an indefinite period."
"Really?"
he replied.
"I shouldn't have fancied that your nephew would have found them very congenial.
Indeed, if you'll pardon my frankness, I was rather surprised to meet them here."
Miss Matilda at once gave him her undivided attention.
"You knew them in America?"
she asked.
"Of course I knew about them.
I was hardly acquainted personally."
It was his tone rather than his words that lent an unfavourable colour to the remark, but the implication was not lost on the Bishop's sister.
Here at last was a man who could give her the information she was most anxious to obtain.
"I should have supposed," she ventured, "that you'd have known such very intimate friends of Cecil's as these appear to be."
"Oh, no," he returned.
"New York's a big place.
I dare say you know much more about them than I do."
"I know nothing!"
she burst out.
"Strange as it may appear to you, my nephew has never told me one word concerning his guests, though I'm expected to receive them under my--his father's roof and introduce them to my friends."
"I see," replied Marchmont cautiously.
"Cecil should have trusted to your excellent discrimination and judgment, unless--" and here he paused.
The position required consideration.
It was easy enough to tell her about these people.
Merely to say that they were an itinerant company of actors and actresses would be sufficient to ensure them a speedy _conge_ from Blanford.
But was it wise to do this?
Did he want them to go?
A hasty action is often like a boomerang.
It returns on the toes of the person who thoughtlessly launches it in flight.
No, on the whole they had better remain, he told himself.
The palace would form an excellent background for the sensational exposure he hoped to make.
If he could only get the Bishop into a corner, he would be quite satisfied.
"Well, what?"
she demanded sharply, impatient at his unfinished sentence.
"Unless," he continued, hedging carefully--"unless your nephew felt that it was quite sufficient to have explained things to his father.
Doubtless the Bishop knows all about his son's friends."
"The Bishop knows a great deal too much for a man in his position," snapped his sister.
"Quite so," thought the journalist, "and doesn't confide it to you."
Aloud he remarked:

"Of course there's nothing particular to be said against them, except that they're hardly in Cecil's set."
"I didn't need you to tell me that.
But what about the ladies?"
"Ah, yes, the ladies.
Well, really, you've put me in an awkward position, Miss Banborough.
One can't be uncomplimentary to the fair sex, you know."
"Humph!
Well, Josephus sees more of both of them than is good for him.
But of course Mrs. Mackintosh has neither the youth nor the good looks to cause me any anxiety."
"Mrs. Mackintosh is eminently respectable," said Marchmont, who always spoke the truth when it did not conflict with business.
"But Miss Arminster?"
The journalist did not answer.
"Well," she cried, "why don't you speak?"
"Madam," he replied, "you place me in a most embarrassing situation.
My duty to you and the natural gallantry of my nature draw me in different directions."
"I insist."
"I put myself in your hands.
In saying what I do I'm laying myself open to serious misconstruction."
"You may rely upon my silence."
"Any indiscretion on your part would be most unfortunate."
"I shall not forget the confidence you've reposed in me."
"I shall hold you to that," he said.
"If I tell you what I have in mind, will you promise not to use the information without my permission?"
"That I cannot say."
"Then I say nothing."
"But you've already implied--"

"But implications, my dear Miss Banborough, are not evidence."
"You leave me no other course but to accede to your request," she said.
"Ah, then you promise?"
"I promise."
"The word of a woman in your position and of your high moral standard I know is sacred."
She nodded.
"Well, then," he continued, "please answer me this question.
Where was your brother the first week in May?"
"In Scotland."
"Why did he go?"
"For absolute rest.
He was worried and run down."
"You heard from him frequently?"
"No, not once during the whole time.
Sir Joseph Westmoreland, the great London nerve specialist, who advised the change, even prohibited correspondence."
"You're sure he was in Scotland?"
"Really, Mr. Marchmont, why do you ask?"
"Because I saw the Bishop of Blanford in the United States in the first week of May on his way to Montreal, Canada."
"Impossible!"
"I'm certain of it."
"I cannot credit what you tell me!"
"What I tell you is quite true.
You say he was absent for a month.
Might he not have gone to the States and returned in that time?"
His sister nodded.
Then, as a sudden thought occurred to her, she flushed red with anger, exclaiming:

"And this girl, this Miss Arminster!
Was she in Montreal also?"
"She was," replied Marchmont.
"I saw her."
"The hussy!"
cried Miss Matilda, rising.
"She shan't remain in my house another hour!"
"Hold on!"
he exclaimed.
"You forget your promise!"
"But after what you've said!"
"I haven't said anything.
Miss Arminster's being in Montreal might have been merely a coincidence."
"But do you know something about her?"
"I've investigated her career," he replied, "and have found nothing objectionable in it, beyond the fact that she's rather fond of getting married."
"Getting married!
But surely she calls herself _Miss_ Arminster?"
"Ah, yes; but that's very common on the--I mean, not unusual in such cases."
"She has been married, then, more than once?"
"I know of a dozen different occasions on which she has had the service performed."
"Infamous!"
"Oh, no.
There's no evidence of her ever having been through the divorce court.
Indeed, she may never have been married to more than one man at the same time."
"But how to account--"

"For the mortality in husbands?
Well, fortunately, we're not required to do that."
"I will not have my dear brother stricken down in his prime!"
gasped Miss Matilda.
"Oh, I don't suppose she's necessarily fatal.
Still, as mistress of Blanford--"

The Bishop's sister arose in her wrath.
For the first time in her existence she wanted to swear, but contented herself by remarking:

"That young woman leaves the palace to-day!"
"You forget your promise to me," he said.
"But is it possible, in the face of what you've told me, that you can hold me to it?"
"Quite possible.
In fact I mean to do so, and as soon as your righteous indignation cools down a bit you'll realise that we've nothing whatsoever to go on.
What I've said could only be substantiated by evidence requiring some time to obtain.
If you accused her now, she'd merely deny my statement, and her word's as good as mine, and probably better, in his Lordship's estimation."
"But is there no proof near at hand?"
"Yes.
She was married several years ago at a little church close by the ruined abbey where I first met your party, and the fact is recorded in the register."
"Then surely--"

"There's no crime in being married once," he objected.
"But what _can_ we do?"
she asked.
"Keep quiet for a little while longer.
Miss Arminster's certain to make some slip, and then--"

"It seems very difficult to wait."
"Believe me," he replied, "it's the only way, and I shall rely on your promise."
Saying which, he left her, partly because he had obtained all the information he wished, and partly because he was certain that he espied the well-known figure of the tramp hovering behind the bushes on the opposite side of the lawn.
A few moments later he had his hand on that individual's collar, and was demanding sternly what he meant by coming to Blanford against his orders.
"'Cause I've somethin' of importance to tell yer," retorted that worthy.
"Well, out with it, quick!"
said the journalist.
"It's got to be pretty important to excuse your disobedience."
"It is.
The boss is going to bolt."
"Who?
The Bishop?"
"That's it!
Him and the lady."
"What lady?"
"The young 'un, I guess."
"What's all this stuff about?"
demanded Marchmont.
"It ain't stuff, as you'll soon see," replied the tramp in an aggrieved tone.
"There was a yacht come into Dullhampton last night, a nasty-lookin' boat and a quick steamer.
The second mate and me, we got to know each other up to the inn--he's a furriner, he is--a Don, more'n likely.
But he let on, havin' had some drink, as how he'd been sent there with the yacht to wait for the Bishop o' Blanford and a lady as was comin' down next day, and the Bishop was to give the sailin' orders."
"Humph!
What more?"
"This mornin' I seed 'em lookin' over a lot of flags on the deck of the yacht, and one of 'em was Spanish."
"So you came all the way up here to tell me this cock-and-bull story!"
"Not till I'd squared the crew."
"Squared the crew?"
"I let on to 'em as how they'd been shipped under false orders to carry two Spanish spies out of the country, an' how we was on to the fact, and if they'd stay by us they'd not be held responsible; and I promised 'em ten shillin's apiece and give 'em all the drink they wanted, and they're ours to a man."
"And that's where you've wasted good money and good liquor.
I tell you what you say is impossible.
If the Bishop had had any idea of a move like that, I'd have got wind of it.
Besides, his old cat of a sister would never let him leave Blanford again without her."
"Hist!"
said the tramp, pointing across the lawn.
"Look there, what did I say?
My eyesight ain't what it was, from breakin' stones up to Sing Sing, and I can't see no faces at this distance, but there's somethin' sneakin' along there, in bishop's togs."
Marchmont followed the direction he indicated, and saw two figures stealing round the corner of the palace, carrying hand-bags and showing every sign of watchfulness and suspicion.
Having ascertained that the lawn was clear, they slipped rapidly across it, and, putting themselves in the protecting shade of a clump of bushes, turned into the high-road and disappeared.
It had needed no second glance to identify them as his Lordship and Miss Arminster.
"By Jove!"
gasped the journalist.
"It is true, then!
This will be a scoop of scoops!
Come, we've got to run for it.
We must take the same train, and they mustn't see us."
Some one else had witnessed the departure, in spite of all the precautions of the fugitives, and that person was Miss Matilda, who, from the vantage of an upper window, caught a glimpse of them just as they disappeared through the gate.
Unwilling at first to believe her senses, she rushed to her brother's room and then to Miss Arminster's.
Alas!
in each apartment the traces of hasty packing and missing hand-luggage gave damning evidence of the fact.
She rushed downstairs, bursting with her dreadful intelligence.
In the hall she met Cecil, delightedly waving a telegram in his hand.
"Hurrah!
Aunt Matilda!"
he shouted.
"Such news!
'The Purple Kangaroo' has reached its twentieth edition, and a truce is declared between the United States and Spain!
Where are the others?
I must tell them that the war is over."
"Bother your war!"
exclaimed his aunt.
"Do you know that your father and that shameless minx, Miss Arminster, have just eloped?"
CHAPTER IV.
IN WHICH THE BISHOP IS ABDUCTED.
All the way from Blanford to Dullhampton the Bishop was in the best of spirits, much on the principle of a naughty boy who, having played truant, means to enjoy his holiday to the full, well knowing that he will be caned when it is over.
Indeed his Lordship became positively skittish, and Miss Arminster was obliged to squelch him a little, as that young lady, for excellent reasons of her own, had no more intention of becoming the mistress of Blanford than she had of wedding the author of "The Purple Kangaroo."
On the other hand, she realised that it was one of the old gentleman's very rare treats, and she wanted him to have as good a time as possible; besides which, she had always longed to take a cruise on a steam-yacht, and now her ambition was about to be gratified.
The shock of disappointment was therefore all the greater when, on their arrival at Dullhampton, they were met by the captain, who informed them that Lord Downton had had a bad fall the day before and seriously sprained his ankle, so that the party had been given up.
He had sent the yacht on, however, with the request that the Bishop would consider it at his disposal for the remainder of the week.
"Now that's exceedingly awkward," said his Lordship.
"I fear we can hardly go yachting without a chaperon."
"Most certainly not," agreed Miss Arminster.
"But let's take a little sail this afternoon, and return to Blanford in time for dinner."
"That's very well thought of," said the Bishop, "and to-morrow we can bring down some more of our party.
It seems a pity we shouldn't use the yacht, now we're here.
Does that arrangement meet with your approval, captain?"
"Well, your Lordship," replied the captain, "to be honest with you, I hadn't expected as how you'd be able to get away to-day, so I'd arranged to see my sister, who lives here, this afternoon, and the first mate's gone up to town to order some stores.
But if you are only to be out for a few hours, as you say, my second mate's quite capable of taking the boat for you.
I wouldn't like to trust him on a long cruise, for he's only joined a few weeks, and I know nothing about his character.
He is a first-class navigator, however, and for an afternoon in the Solent he'll do you very well."
"I'm sure we would not want to interfere with your plans, captain," said his Lordship, "so if Miss Arminster agrees--"

"Oh my, yes," acquiesced Violet.
"I don't care who takes the yacht out, so long as we go."
"Right you are," said the captain.
"Steam's up, and I've ordered lunch on board, as I thought you'd want that anyway.
I'll tell Funk, the second mate, to run out into the Solent, and then you can give your own orders.
What time will you be back?"
"Oh, not later than six," replied the Bishop, as they stepped on board Lord Downton's beautiful craft, the "Homing Pigeon."
She was a large boat and thoroughly seaworthy.
Indeed her owner had made a voyage in her to the Mediterranean, but she was built for speed also, and decidedly rakish in cut.
They were at once introduced to the second mate, and Miss Arminster thought she had seldom seen a more unprepossessing individual.
He was surly and shifty-eyed, and she confided to the Bishop, when they were alone, that she was glad they were not going far from land under that man's charge, for he looked like a pirate.
After glancing round the deck, which seemed charmingly arranged, they at once descended to the cabin for lunch, for their little journey had made them hungry.
Here the captain left them with a few courteous words of excuse.
A moment later, as he was leaving the ship, he met two strangers coming on board, laden with hand-baggage.
They were, though unknown to him, the journalist and the tramp.
On asking them sharply what their business was, Marchmont replied very glibly that he was his Lordship's valet, and that he had hired this man to bring down the luggage from the station.
"I don't think your master'll need his traps, as he's only going out for the afternoon," said the captain.
"But you'd better take them down to the cabin, and see the porter gets off before they start.
I don't allow strangers aboard."
The valet touched his hat respectfully, and went up the gangway, followed by the obsequious porter.
A moment later they reached the deck, and no sooner had the captain disappeared round a corner than both men approached the second mate, with whom they had a hurried and earnest conversation, followed by an interchange of something which that officer transferred to his trousers-pocket and jingled appreciatively.
The ropes were now cast off, and they got under way, while Marchmont stole very quietly to the door of the hatchway which led down to the saloon where the Bishop and the actress were unsuspectingly lunching, and softly turned the key.
"Mayn't I cut you a slice of this cold ham, my dear?"
asked the Bishop in his most fatherly tones.
"Not while the pigeon-pie lasts," said his fair companion.
"But you may give me a glass of champagne, if you will.
I see some going to waste in an ice-cooler over there in the corner."
"I was hoping the steward would come," ventured his Lordship.
"Well, I hope he won't.
Being tete-a-tete is much more fun, don't you think?
Give the bottle to me, and I'll show you how to open it and not spill a drop.
In some respects your education's been neglected."
"I'm afraid it has," admitted the Bishop, assisting her with his pen-knife.
His Lordship felt recklessly jovial.
To lunch alone with a young lady who opened champagne with a dexterity that bespoke considerable practice must be very wicked, he felt certain, and he was shocked to realise that he didn't care if it was.
His years of repression were beginning to find their outlet in a natural reaction.
"Here, have a glass of champagne, and don't think about your shortcomings," she said.
"That's very nice," he replied, just tasting it.
"Nonsense!"
she cried.
"No heel-taps.
I'm no end thirsty."
"So am I," replied his Lordship, draining his glass contentedly, and watching her fill it up again.
"What are you so pensive about?"
she demanded.
"There's another bottle."
He had been thinking that his sister always confined him to two glasses, but he didn't say so, and under her skilful lead he was soon describing to her a Cowes regatta he had once seen, in which she professed to be amazingly interested.
"I tell you what it is," she remarked a little later on.
"If I had a gorgeous palace like yours I'd have no end of a good time."
"Ah," said the Bishop, who was helping her to unfasten the second bottle of champagne, "I never thought of it in that light."
"No," returned his fair companion, "I suppose not.
But you're losing lots of fun in life, and it does seem a shame, when you would so enjoy it."
"It does," said the Bishop, sampling the fresh bottle.
"But then, you see, there's my sister, Miss Matilda--"

"Rats!"
"Excuse me, I didn't catch your meaning."
"Never mind my meaning.
We're talking about your sister.
She's a most estimable woman, my dear Bish-- Oh, pshaw!
I can't always call you by your title."
"Call me Josephus," he said.
"No, I couldn't call you that, either.
It's too dreadful.
I'll call you Joe."
The Bishop beamed with joy.
"And I," he faltered, "may I call you Violet?"
"No," she said, "I don't think it's proper in a man of your position."
"But if you call me--Joe--"

"Well!"
she cried, laughing, "we'll make a compromise.
Suppose you call me 'the Leopard'?"
"To be sure," he said.
"Mrs. Mackintosh spoke of you as that--er--quadruped.
But what does it mean?"
"You want to know a great deal too much for a man of your age.
It's an animal that is more than once mentioned in Scripture, and that ought to be sufficient for your purposes.
So we'll have it understood that his Lordship's Leopard is quite at his Lordship's service, if his Lordship doesn't mind."
"Mind!"
he cried ecstatically, eyeing the other side of the table.
But Miss Violet intended to have the board between them.
"Take another glass of champagne, and keep quiet," she said sternly.
"We're talking about your estimable but impossible sister.
My dear Joe, you'll never have any sport till you've got rid of her."
"But how shall I get rid of her?"
he asked despondently.
Even champagne was not proof against the depression induced by such an appalling thought.
"Oh, send her to a course of mud-baths or a water-cure!"
"I might try it--if--if you'd help me--if you'd take her place at the palace.
I mean--"

"Josephus!"
she called, in such an exact imitation of his sister's tone that it made him sit right up.
"Josephus!
don't say another word!
I know what you mean--and you're an old dear--and I'm not going to let you make a fool of yourself.
You're aged enough to be my father, and if your son had had his way you would have been my father-in-law.
I want to have a good time, and I want you to have a good time; but that isn't the proper manner in which to set about it.
No, you send the old lady packing, for the good of her health, and Mrs. Mackintosh and I'll help you and Cecil entertain, and we'll have a dance, and a marquee, and lots of punch.
I dare say you've never been to a dance in your life," she rattled on, not giving him a chance to blunder out excuses.
"I'm not such an old fogey as you think me," he began.
"But I want to say--er--Miss--Leopard--"

"Oh, no, you don't," she interrupted.
"You want to forget what you've said, and so do I.
We must talk about something else.
What were you saying about a dance?"
"No, no, not a dance," he replied, resigning himself to his fate.
"But once," lowering his voice, "not long ago either, when I was in town, I--I'm sure you won't believe it-- I went to a theatre."
This last triumphantly.
"Oh, you sad dog!"
she cried.
"You didn't!"
He nodded his head affirmatively.
"And what was the piece?"
"'The Sign of the Cross.'"
"What, that gruesome show, where every one's slaughtered or chewed up by lions!
You ought to have gone to the Empire."
"It wasn't far from Leicester Square," he said deprecatingly.
"Not near enough to be very wicked," she retorted.
"But, say, I'll tell you something if you'll promise never, never to reveal it."
"The word of a bishop--" he began.
"Oh, nonsense!
You're not a bishop at present, you're just Joe.
Well, here it is: I'm an actress!"
"You--are--an--actress!"
"Fact!
I'm quite harmless.
If you keep six feet from me there's not the slightest danger of contamination."
Then, seeing his look of astonished bewilderment, she burst into a peal of ringing laughter, crying:

"Why, to look at you, one would think I'd told you that I was a Gorgon!"
"No, no," he said, stammering.
"I--I'm delighted.
I always really wanted to meet an actress--but--er--I hardly know what to say--"

"Don't say anything.
Just be your dear unsophisticated self, or you'll be a bore.
Cecil didn't dare tell you who I was, for fear you'd be shocked.
Come on, let's go up on deck.
It's close down here."
"It is," admitted his Lordship, whose temperature had risen with his consumption of champagne, and added:

"We should be well out by this time, for we seem to have been going at great speed."
"Isn't it glorious!"
she cried.
"I wonder what they're doing at Blanford.
I guess your telegram was an eye-opener."
"Bless my soul!"
exclaimed the Bishop, fishing a form out of his pocket.
"I forgot to send it."
"What, do you mean to say they don't know what's become of us?"
"I never said a word."
"My hat!"
she cried.
"Won't you get a wigging to-night?"
Then, seeing his evident discomfiture, she added:

"Never mind, I'll take it with you; and if she turns nasty we'll put a flea in her ear about those mud-baths.
Come, let's have our fun, anyway."
And she put her hand on the cabin door.
"Why, it's stuck!"
she exclaimed.
"I can't open it."
The Bishop grasped the handle.
"It isn't stuck!"
he cried, shaking it.
"It's locked!"
*       *       *       *       *

While events had been progressing in the cabin, others of no less importance were taking place on deck.
Once they were well off the land, Funk lost no time in calling a meeting of the crew of the yacht, who formed a circle around him.
"Now, my hearties," he said, introducing Marchmont, "this gentleman's got a word to say to you which it's worth your while to hear."
And he put him in the centre of the ring.
"Mates," began the journalist, fitting his speech to the audience he was addressing, "I'm a plain man of few words, and I've come to you about a plain matter.
Mr. Funk will tell you I'm speaking the truth; and you know this gentleman," indicating the tramp.
The crowd growled gutturally.
They appreciated the tramp's generous offers of liquor, but not his society.
"Well," continued Marchmont, ignoring the unfavourable tone, "I suppose you'd all like to see the Yankees lick the Dons."
"Ay, ay, you're right there," muttered a burly tar.
"Good for you!
We're all of the same family, and blood's thicker than water.
Of course you want the boys in blue to win; and that being the case, I rely on you to help me, like true British tars, the nation's bulwarks--!"
"Hear, hear!"
growled the crowd appreciatively.
"Now do you know whom you've aboard to-day?"
demanded the American.
"The Bishop o' Blanford, and a laidy," came the tones of a voice whose owner evidently hailed from London.
"No, you haven't," cried the journalist excitedly.
"No, you haven't!
You've got two low-down Spanish spies!"
"What d'ye say, mate?"
demanded the first speaker among the crew.
"I'm telling you the truth," vociferated Marchmont, lying boldly; for he feared that the Bishop's conspiracies would go for nothing if they suspected he was really a churchman.
"I'm telling you the truth," he repeated.
"And these two gentlemen," referring to the mate and the tramp, "will back me up.
That man's no more the Bishop of Blanford than you are!
And the _lady_--well, she's on the stage when she isn't in the pay of the Spanish Government.
I've tracked them from the States to Canada, where I saw them both a month ago, and then to England.
I don't say how they got hold of this yacht, but I ask you, where's the captain and the first mate?"
A growl of suspicion rewarded his efforts.
"They took pretty good care to get out of the way, and leave Mr. Funk and you to bear the brunt of any breach of neutrality that these conspirators might let you in for."
The sailors began to whisper to one another, and were evidently uneasy.
"Then look at the captain's parting words!"
cried the journalist.
"'Go out into the Solent,' says he, 'and the _Bishop_ will give you your sailing orders,' Sailing orders, indeed!
What would a parson know about sailing a vessel of this sort?"
One of the men nudged another at this, and he of the gruff voice gave it as his opinion that "there was summat in it."
"I'll tell you what the sailing orders will be," shouted Marchmont.
"They'll take you round the Needles, and alongside of a Spanish cruiser.
And when you get ashore, you'll all be clapped into prison for helping the Dons."
"Let's take 'em back now," came a chorus of voices.
"And let 'em go scot-free?"
demanded Marchmont.
"Well, what would _you_ do?"
asked the spokesman.
"I?"
said the journalist.
"I'd hand 'em over to the first American ship we sight, and send 'em to New York.
That takes the burden off _your_ shoulders.
My man has promised you ten shillings apiece.
Put 'em on board a Yankee ship, and I'll make it a pound."
And he brought up a handful of gold from his pocket, and jingled it in their faces.
It has been said that money talks, and it undoubtedly did so in this case.
Marchmont's specious arguments sounded plausible enough, and the mate, who was a thoroughly bad lot and had plenty of the journalist's money in his pocket, backed him up in every particular.
So the crew, after a little discussion, accepted the proposition to a man, and the fact that the Bishop chose this unfortunate time to make an attack on the cabin door probably helped to decide them.
"You see," cried the journalist, as it rattled on its hinges, "they're trying to break out now, and are probably armed to the teeth."
"We're with you, mates.
The Yankees shall have 'em!"
shouted the crowd.
"Good!"
he replied.
"I'll see if I can induce them to surrender quietly."
And going to the cabin door, he unlocked it and entered, closing it behind him.
"Who has dared to lock us in in this unwarrantable manner?"
spluttered the Bishop, as the door opened.
Then, seeing who it was, he fell back a step, exclaiming:

"Why, Mr. Marchmont, how did you come on board?"
"Never mind about that," said the journalist shortly.
"I'm here, and I locked you in; and when I tell you that I'm thoroughly on to the whole show, you'll understand that this high-and-mighty business doesn't go down.
Got any champagne left?
I'm as dry as a bone."
The Bishop was rapidly turning purple with suppressed indignation, but Miss Arminster scornfully indicated the location of the wine-cooler.
"Ah, thanks," said the intruder, tossing off a glass.
"That's better."
And he threw himself comfortably down on a divan, saying, as he did so:

"If you two have any weapons, you might as well put them on the table.
Resistance is quite useless.
I've plenty of men awaiting my signal on deck."
Violet, who in the light of this last remark suddenly understood the position, burst into peals of laughter.
"You'll find it's no laughing matter," cried the journalist angrily.
"I insist upon your instantly explaining your outrageous conduct," said the Bishop.
"I can do that in a very few words," replied Marchmont.
"As an American representative, and authorised agent of the _Daily Leader_, the people's bulwark of defence, I arrest you both as Spanish spies."
"He must be mad!"
ejaculated his Lordship.
"Oh, no, he isn't.
He actually believes it!"
cried Violet between her paroxysms of merriment.
But her companion would not be convinced.
"My dear man," he said blandly, "you must be suffering under some grievous delusion.
I am, as you should know, having been my guest, the Bishop of Blanford, and it is quite impossible that either I or this lady should have any connection with a political crime.
I must insist that you release us at once, and go away quietly, or I shall be forced to use harsher measures."
"You do it very well, very well indeed," commented the journalist.
"But you can't fool me, and so you'd better give up trying."
"I say," remarked Miss Arminster to Marchmont, "you're making an awful fool of yourself."
The representative of the _Daily Leader_ shrugged his shoulders.
"Won't you consent to let us go, without threshing the whole thing out?"
she asked.
"What do you take me for?"
"Well, as you please," she said resignedly.
"Put your questions; we'll answer them."
"Is it best to humour him?"
enquired his Lordship in a low voice.
"It's the only way," she replied.
"Give him string enough, and see the cat's-cradle he'll weave out of it."
"Now," said the journalist cheerfully to the Bishop, "perhaps you'll deny that you spent a month or six weeks in the United States this spring?"
"A month," acquiesced his Lordship.
"Just so.
And during that time you were supposed to be in Scotland taking a rest-cure?"
"I admit that such is the case.
But how you obtained your information--"

"I got it from your sister--about the rest-cure, I mean."
"Did you tell her--er--that I was--er--in the United States?"
"Yes," replied the journalist.
His Lordship heaved a deep sigh.
The future, he thought, held worse things for him than arrest and deportation.
"How did you know that I was in the United States and Canada?"
he demanded.
"I saw you."
"Where?"
"At a little station on the borders of the two countries.
You spent the night wrapped up in a blanket, and slept under the bar."
"You never--!"
broke in Miss Arminster.
The Bishop nodded mournfully.
So far the facts were against him, and his interlocutor's face shone with a gleam of triumph.
"But in that case--" exclaimed Violet.
"Excuse me, I'll tell the story," said Marchmont, and continued the narration.
"You were roused about five in the morning by a man breaking into the room."
"So I was," admitted the Bishop.
"How did you know?"
"I was asleep in the room overhead, and gave the alarm."
"That's perfectly correct," acquiesced his Lordship.
"I remember the tones of your voice.
It's most astounding."
"And the man who broke into the bar," continued Violet, "was your son."
It was now Marchmont's turn to be astonished.
"What!"
he cried, while the Bishop ejaculated:

"Impossible!"
"But it was," she insisted.
"He went to get the coffee for me."
"Were you in the station, too?"
demanded his Lordship.
"No, I was out in a potato-patch."
"You a member of that party of political criminals who jumped off the train!"
cried the Bishop.
"I heard all about it the next morning, but I can't believe--"

"It's quite true," she assured him.
"But it's too remarkable," he went on.
"I'd gone to America on purpose to find my son, of whom I'd heard nothing for a year.
And you say he was there, and--er--touched me?"
"Why, didn't you see him in Montreal?"
asked Marchmont.
"I sailed next day for England.
I was on my way to the steamer when the accident occurred which detained me overnight."
"Why then did you conceal the purpose of your trip?"
demanded his tormentor.
"My sister was much opposed to my seeking my son," said his Lordship, colouring furiously.
"And--I--in short, I had reasons."
The journalist laughed.
"The story's clever," he said.
"But I can tell a more interesting tale."
And he proceeded to relate the adventures of Cecil in the person of "the Bishop," to which his Lordship listened with open-mouthed astonishment.
"There!"
concluded his captor triumphantly.
"Have you anything to say to that?"
"I have," chimed in Miss Arminster, and she gave the true version of the affair from the time Banborough had first engaged them at the Grand Central Station.
"It's a very plausible story," said Marchmont, when she had finished, "and does credit to your invention.
But fortunately I'm in a condition to completely disprove it."
"Really?"
she asked.
"How so?"
"I can produce a witness of the whole transaction."
"Who?"
"Friend Othniel."
"What!
here, on board the yacht?"
"Yes," said Marchmont, "on board this yacht.
And he can prove that what I say is true."
"What?
About the Bishop?"
she cried, her voice quivering with suppressed merriment.
"Certainly," replied the journalist.
"After his release from the Black Maria he tells substantially your story, but gives the Bishop the part you have carefully assigned to his innocent son."
At this she once more broke into peals of laughter, but at last, recovering her speech, managed to gasp out:

"Bring him here, and see what he says."
"I will," said Marchmont, hurriedly leaving the cabin, for her marvellous self-possession was beginning to arouse unpleasant suspicions even in his mind.
"But what does it all mean?"
queried the Bishop helplessly, after the journalist's departure.
"How dare he say such things about me!
I drive a prison-van, indeed!"
"I'll tell you," she replied, striving to control her voice.
"It's the greatest practical joke that ever was.
We called your son 'the Bishop,' just as a nickname, you see, and of course the tramp heard us, and, after we dropped him in Montreal, must have blown the whole thing to Marchmont out of spite, and, not knowing any better, he thought your son really _was_ the Bishop."
Here his Lordship became speechless, as the truth dawned upon him; and at that moment Marchmont entered the cabin, with Friend Othniel in tow.
"There!"
he said, pointing to the ecclesiastic.
"Is that the Bishop of Blanford?"
"Naw," replied the tramp.
"He's old enough to be his father, he is.
The Bishop I means is a young 'un."
"Like this!"
cried Violet, opening the locket which Cecil had given her in Montreal, and handing it to the tramp.
"That's him to a T," said Friend Othniel.
"I'd know him among a thousand."
For a moment Marchmont said nothing as he encountered the full force of the cruel disillusion, and then with painstaking precision he turned and kicked the tramp up the entire flight of cabin stairs.
"Now," remarked the Bishop, "perhaps you'll allow us to go free."
"No!"
cried the journalist, slamming the door.
"I've wasted heaps of cash and no end of time over this wild-goose-chase, but the _Daily Leader_ shall have its scoop yet!
If you aren't conspirators, I'll make you so, in spite of yourselves!
You _shall_ be Spanish spies!"
CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH THE BISHOP EATS JAM TART, AND MISS MATILDA HUMBLE-PIE.
"Now," remarked the Bishop to Miss Arminster, as Marchmont quitted the cabin after this last astounding remark, "Now I'm certain he's mad."
"Oh, no," replied the lady, "it's merely journalistic enterprise.
I don't blame him for being disappointed.
It must be hard to find that we're not conspirators, after all."
"But why should he wish to make us so?"
"You dear stupid old Joe!"
she exclaimed.
"You haven't the remotest inkling of what American journalism means.
It's sensation first, last, and altogether.
Think of a bishop, and an English bishop at that, posing as an agent of the Spanish secret service, and eloping with an actress on somebody else's yacht.
Why, I can shut my eyes and see the headlines.
They're almost certain to print them in red ink.
There's fame for you!"
"But why should he wish to print it if it's not the truth?"
"Truth!
My dear Bishop, who said anything about truth?
We were speaking of news, and--journalistic enterprise."
At this moment the door again burst open, and Marchmont flung into the cabin.
"There!"
he said, with a tone of triumph, "we've sighted an American steamer down channel, and have hoisted the Spanish flag.
We're pursuing her, and very presently we shall be captured, and you'll be surrendered."
"I suppose," began the Bishop, "that, to a man so devoid of moral consciousness as you appear to be, no arguments of mine--"

"Don't waste your breath," broke in Miss Arminster.
"They wouldn't."
"Why, I'm sorry to cause you any inconvenience," said the journalist amiably, "but you see, my paper's simply panting for sensation, and when they hear about this little racket they'll sell extras till they can't see straight."
"And what, may I ask, will happen when the truth comes out?"
demanded his Lordship severely.
"Oh, the war'll probably be over by the time you reach New York, and you'll cease to be interesting," replied Marchmont.
"Besides, we'll have had our scoop, and most likely, when the _Daily Leader_ finds there's no case against you they'll give you a return ticket.
The management's generally pretty liberal."
"Well, I must say," spluttered the Bishop, "that of all the brazen--unconscionable--!"
"Why did you raise the Spanish flag?"
interrupted Miss Arminster.
"That was my idea," said the journalist, "and I'm rather proud of it.
You see, we could hardly reverse the Union Jack as a sign of distress, and then go full speed ahead, but I don't think an American ship would resist taking a Spanish prize; and as soon as they get within firing range we'll run up a flag of truce.
By the way," he continued, becoming quite courteous, now that he felt he had them in his power, "why do you remain in this stuffy cabin?
I shall be very glad to have you up on deck, provided you'll give me your parole."
"What, not to escape?"
asked Violet.
"Did you think we were going to jump overboard and swim ashore?"
"No.
I mean that you should give your parole not to be anything but Spaniards."
"I am afraid we couldn't manage that," she replied.
"The Bishop doesn't look nearly ferocious enough."
"I absolutely refuse to become a party to this deception!"
said his Lordship.
"Oh, I don't ask you to do that," returned Marchmont, "only to promise that you'll not try and enlist the sympathies of the crew in your behalf."
"I shall not promise anything," said the Bishop, "nor shall I allow this lady to do so.
I'm a man of peace, but if ever I get hold of you on dry land I'll horsewhip you, if it costs me my see; and if you don't leave this cabin at once I'll treat you as you treated your friend.
You are a thorough blackguard, and not fit to associate with gentlemen!"
The journalist started to say something, but, remembering that his accuser was muscular, thought better of it, shrugged his shoulders, and went out silently, locking the door behind him.
"There!"
said his Lordship, "I can breathe more freely now."
Miss Arminster made no reply, for the excellent reason that her head was out of a port-hole, and she could not hear clearly what was said.
Presently she pulled it in again, crying, as she did so:

"Oh, do look!
This is great sport!
The American ship is running away from us!"
Such was indeed the case.
The vessel they were overhauling was a small tramp steamer, which had evidently found courage, through the general incapacity of the Spanish navy and the fancied security of neutral waters, to flaunt the Stars and Stripes.
It was therefore most disconcerting to find herself suddenly pursued in the English Channel by a craft which had every appearance of being a Spanish gunboat.
No sooner had she caught a glimpse of the red and yellow flag of her enemy than she crowded on to her yards every stitch of canvass she possessed, in the hope of obtaining some advantage from the light breeze that was blowing, while the black clouds of smoke which belched from her single funnel showed that her engines were being driven to their utmost capacity.
She having a long lead and the combined assistance of wind and steam, the distance between the pursuer and the pursued decreased slowly, and it soon became evident that it was to be a stern chase, which is proverbially a long chase.
The yacht, therefore, turned about in search of some fresh enemy to whom she might surrender, and in this fortune favored her, for down the Channel came a great liner, whose name, albeit she flew temporarily the flag of another nation, proclaimed her to be an American ship, with an American captain and crew.
Those on board the "Homing Pigeon" now adopted different tactics, and an inverted British ensign replaced the banner of the Dons.
As the yacht stood directly in the path of the oncoming ocean greyhound, and flew signals of distress which she could not disregard, the great ship was forced to heave to.
Marchmont hastened to convey the news to his prisoners in the cabin, saying that he considered them very fortunate, as they had every prospect of a speedy and pleasant voyage, and cautioning them at the same time, as he led the way up the cabin stairs, that resistance was futile, and that any remarks of theirs to the crew would only be so much waste of breath.
To all of which neither deigned to answer a word, realising that in their present precarious position silence was not only the most dignified but also the safest course.
As they reached the deck the great liner was almost abreast of them, and gradually came to a standstill with clouds of pent-up steam pouring from her safety-valves.
"What do you want?"
bawled her chief officer through a megaphone, his voice sounding very large and clear from the great height above them.
"We've two prisoners of war, Spanish spies, and we wish to hand them over!"
shouted the mate in return.
"This isn't an American ship," came the reply.
"Yes, it is," howled Marchmont; "we know better!
You belong to the 'Pink Star' line."
The chief officer conferred with the captain.
"It's Mason and Slidell the other way round," he said.
"I wouldn't touch 'em with a ten-foot pole.
Besides--" and here he seized the megaphone from his subordinate and yelled through it:

"You infernal idiots!
don't you know the war with Spain is over?
We've declared a truce!"
"I don't believe it," cried Marchmont, shaking his fist at the great steamship in a paroxysm of disappointed rage.
"It's only an excuse to shirk your duty!
We've brought them out to you, and you've got to take them!
I'll report you to the government!
I'll--!"
The sharp ring of the engine-room bell from the liner's bridge was the only reply vouchsafed him, and a moment later the big ship forged ahead, her captain very red in the face and swearing like a trooper: for the most precious thing on board a racer of that class is time, and the "Homing Pigeon" had been wasting it.
The Bishop, noting the sheepish faces of the mate and his two fellow conspirators, and the lowering glances of the crew, turned to Miss Arminster, saying:

"We'd better return to the cabin, my dear.
I think there's going to be trouble."
The little actress followed his Lordship's gaze, and descended without a word of protest.
She thought so, too.
They had hardly entered the saloon, when there came a respectful knock at the door, and an elderly seaman entered, ducking his head.
"Well, my good man," said his Lordship, "what can I do for you?"
"Meanin' no disrespect, sir, be you really the Bishop of Blanford?"
"Certainly I am," that gentleman replied.
"You see my dress, and," as a happy thought struck him, "here's one of my cards to prove my identity."
And he handed the sailor a bit of pasteboard with his title engraved thereon.
"And the lady?"
asked the seaman.
"The lady is no more connected with this absurd charge than I am," pursued the Bishop.
"You've been grievously misled by your mate and these two strangers.
But if you'll take us safe to the nearest port, I'll speak a word in your favour to your master, Lord Downton, who's an intimate friend of mine.
Can you read?"
"Yes, your honour."
"Then here's a letter from his Lordship, which I fortunately have by me, requesting me to join his yacht.
Read it yourself, and show it to your fellows as a proof of who I am."
And he handed him the missive.
The sailor took it, ducked again, and retired silently, and there was presently a great shuffling of feet on the deck above.
"What do you think they're doing?"
asked Violet.
"I trust they're coming to their senses--and if--" But his remarks were interrupted by a most terrific row overhead, shouts, blows, and curses.
"Bless my soul!"
exclaimed the Bishop.
"What can be the matter?"
"They're squaring accounts with Marchmont, Friend Othniel, and the mate, I guess," she replied, "and I hope they'll half kill them."
"Fie, fie!
my dear Leopard--most unchristian.
I must certainly go and--"

"No, you mustn't do anything of the sort!
Stay right where you are.
We're in hot enough water already."
And suiting the action to the word, she pushed him back on to the divan.
"Well, really--!"
remarked the Bishop, and collapsed amiably.
Presently the sounds of commotion ceased, and gave way to laughter, but laughter with a certain grim note in it that boded ill for those laughed at.
After a little, there came another knock at the cabin door, and this time quite a deputation entered the saloon, the sailor who had first visited them being the spokesman.
"Having disposed of those gents as you suggested--" he began.
"No, no!"
the Bishop hastened to disclaim, "I suggested nothing."
"Well," said the seaman, "we've fixed 'em, anyway.
And now we're heading for the nearest port, which the same's Weymouth, and we hopes you'll overlook what's gone before, and come on deck and take command of this yacht."
"I will certainly come on deck," replied the Bishop.
"But as to assuming command of the ship, I hardly feel qualified.
Is there not some one among you--?"
"I'm bo'sn, please your honour," volunteered the speaker.
"Ah," said the Bishop blandly, "then I appoint you."
And as the men fell back, he escorted Miss Arminster upstairs.
As they appeared on deck, a striking scene met their eyes.
Three wretched figures were triced up to the mainmast.
They had only such remnants of clothes remaining on their persons as decency demanded, and they had all evidently made a recent acquaintance with the ship's tar-barrel and slush-bucket.
As his Lordship and Miss Arminster appeared, the crew approached, expecting a speech.
"I hardly know what to say," began the Bishop to Violet.
"Let me speak to them, will you?"
she asked, her eyes sparkling.
"I understand human nature pretty well.
I have to, in my profession."
His Lordship nodded assent, and a moment later she had sprung on to the cabin hatch, a most entrancing little figure, and instantly commanded the attention and admiration of her audience.
"Mates!"
she cried, in her clear ringing voice, "mates, I want a word with you."
"Speak up, and welcome!"
called some one in the crowd, while the boatswain, nudging a comrade in the ribs, remarked under his breath:

"My eye, but she's a stunner!"
Silence having been obtained, she continued:

"I've only this to say.
We've all been made fools of.
Those gentlemen tied up to the mast made fools of you, and you've certainly made fools of them."
A loud laugh greeted this sally.
"And," she resumed, "if it ever gets out that his Lordship the Bishop of Blanford and myself were carried off as Spanish spies, we'll never hear the last of it.
Now let's all keep silence for the sake of the others.
Put us ashore at Weymouth, and we'll say to Lord Downton that it was our wish to be landed there.
He won't know about the occurrences of this day, unless some of you tell him.
You might leave the journalist and the tramp at Weymouth, too.
I guess they'll have had enough of the sea to last them for some time.
And oh, by the way, I suppose Mr. Marchmont intended to pay you for this.
Perhaps you'll see that the division is properly carried out."
"Ay, ay!"
came from twenty throats, followed by a rousing cheer.
And so it happened that they reached _terra firma_ about six in the afternoon.
But Weymouth, while it is geographically not far distant from Blanford, is miles away by the railroad and its connections, and they did not reach the palace till nearly midnight.
Everything was dark and still, and as they stood shivering in the porch, the Bishop remarked, producing his latch-key:

"Do you know I--I'm really afraid to open the door."
She gave his hand a reassuring squeeze, and they entered softly.
"Is there anything I can get for the Leopard, before she retires?"
he asked apologetically, as they crossed the stone-paved floor of the palace by the aid of a single bedroom candle, which only served to accentuate the surrounding darkness.
"No, thank you, I'm all right," she faltered, putting her foot on the first step of the stairs.
And then, without the slightest warning, she burst into tears.
His Lordship, completely bewildered at this unexpected turn of affairs, patted her on the head, saying: "Dear, dear!"
much as he would have done to obstreperous babies suspicious of baptism.
But the fair Violet wept on.
"What is it?"
said the Bishop.
"What have I done?"
"You haven't done anything," she replied between her sobs, "but I--I'm so dreadfully hungry."
"Dear me!"
exclaimed his Lordship, "I forgot all about dinner."
It was quite true that, in his anxiety to catch trains and make a series of bewildering connections, the question of food had entirely escaped his memory, and, now he came to think of it, he was ravenously hungry himself.
"I'm so sorry," he said helplessly.
"We must see what we can find."
It was years since he had dared to investigate his own pantries; but under the spur of Miss Arminster's necessities he achieved prodigies of valour, even breaking into that holy of holies, his sister's jam-closet.
The little actress aided and abetted him, creating havoc among jars of sardines, olives, and caviare.
And then, while they were in the midst of their midnight orgy, a figure appeared before them--a figure clad in an indescribable dressing-gown and carrying a bedroom candle.
"Josephus," said the apparition, "is that you?"
"Yes, my dear," replied the Bishop, with his mouth full of jam tart, "it is."
"I wonder you've the face to enter the house!"
said his sister.
"His own house!
That's good," commented Miss Arminster from the midst of sardines.
"I admit that the circumstances are unusual," remarked the Bishop, cutting himself another large slice of the pastry, "but the train service is most irregular, and, as you can see, it was necessary to bring the Leopard home to-night, and so--"

"Josephus!"
broke in his sister, "there are no leopards in this country, and I _can_ see that to the other sins you have undoubtedly committed you have added the vice of--"

But she got no further, for the Bishop, casting a glance at each of the two women, decided that now or never was salvation at hand, and said brusquely:

"Matilda, go to bed at once!"
It was the first time he had ever spoken to her in tones of authority, and his sister, not believing her ears, returned to the charge.
"And as for that shameless minx--" she continued; but his Lordship again interrupted, remarking severely:

"Matilda, go to bed instantly!"
But the spinster was not yet defeated.
"Josephus!"
she began, in her most approved style.
"Go to bed!"
repeated the Bishop sharply.
For one moment she wavered.
Then, realising that under the present conditions resistance was worse than useless, she turned slowly upon her heel, and marched upstairs with the air of a martyr going to the stake.
"You were right," said his Lordship moodily, as he disposed of the last piece of pie-crust.
"Right about what?"
asked Violet.
"Mud-baths," returned the Bishop.
CHAPTER VI.
IN WHICH MISS ARMINSTER PROPOSES TO MARRY AGAIN.
Cecil and Miss Matilda breakfasted alone the next morning.
This was not by intention, but by fate.
Violet and the Bishop, for obvious reasons, kept their respective rooms.
Mrs. Mackintosh had felt it her duty to breakfast with, and comfort, her friend in distress, likewise to receive an early account of the doings of the day before; while Smith and Spotts, hearing that the fugitives had returned, took an early breakfast and adjourned to the neighboring golf-links.
Cecil, however, who slept well, came down at the usual hour, quite unconscious of what was impending, and calmly walked into the trap.
After the ancient butler had passed the tea and toast, and then withdrawn, as was his wont, leaving them to carve out their own salvation, Miss Matilda lost no time in opening up the contest.
She had been at swords' points with her nephew ever since the evening before, as a result of his stoutly maintaining his father's innocence, and the manner in which she reported her midnight meeting would have made even Marchmont envious.
"And now of course he'll have to marry her," she wound up her recital.
"Good heavens!
I hope not!"
ejaculated Cecil.
"I'm glad," remarked his aunt stiffly, "that we've at least one point of agreement."
"Oh, we are quite agreed on that," he returned.
"It would never do at all; in fact it's quite impossible."
"You know, then?"
she demanded.
"Know what?"
he asked cautiously.
"That she's been married dozens of times already."
"I don't think I can subscribe to more than half a dozen.
But Miss Arminster certainly does seem to have a fondness for that sort of thing."
"And in the face of such scandalous proceedings do you consider her a fit person to marry your poor misguided father?"
"I've told you I don't approve," he said, and added: "How did you come to know about Miss Arminster's marriages?"
"Mr. Marchmont told me."
"Confound him!"
"Cecil!
Mr. Marchmont's a gentleman."
"He's a mischief-maker of the first water."
"Do not let us waste time in discussing his character.
The important question is, what are we to do about your father's marriage?"
"Stop it."
"But how?"
she asked.
"Shall I speak?"
"No, no; leave it to me," he said.
"I'll undertake to settle the matter.
If you saw the Bishop, you'd only irritate him."
"He told me to go to bed, last night, after that woman had insulted me."
"Insulted you?
I thought you told me she'd nothing to say for herself."
"Her presence was an insult, and one of us leaves this house to-day," replied his aunt, and swept out of the room.
Cecil gulped down his tea, and, ringing the bell, sent an urgent message to Miss Arminster, requesting a meeting in his aunt's boudoir, which, considering the purpose of the interview, he was sure Miss Matilda would not object to put at her disposal.
Violet received him in about twenty minutes, apologising for her charming tea-gown, on the ground of being somewhat seedy.
"Our supper last night was rather extraordinary, you know," she said.
"I've only heard one version," he replied.
"Miss Matilda's?"
she asked, laughing.
He nodded.
"I fancy it was lurid enough," she went on; "but your good father's out of leading-strings this time, and no mistake."
"Tell me all about it," he said.
"I'm most anxious to know."
"Of course you are," she returned.
"So here goes."
Banborough enjoyed the recital immensely, and laughed immoderately at certain passages.
"So the governor knows all about our adventures?"
he said, when she had finished.
"Did he seem much upset?"
"Only about not recognising you when you blacked his eye under the bar."
"What a good old chap he is!
Just think of his coming all that way to hunt me up!
I wish he could have some fun out of life."
"We must try and help him to do so," she said.
"Yes," he replied, suddenly recollecting the object of his mission.
"It's just that that I've come about.
You see he's awfully conscientious, and when he's thought things over a bit, helped by my aunt's amiable suggestions, he'll come to the conclusion that he ought to marry you, you know--and so--well, he'll try to do it," he ended lamely, hoping she would see the point without further elucidation on his part.
She was quick to take him up.
"And you don't think that's just the best way for him to have a good time?
Sour grapes--eh, my son?"
"No, no; only he's certain to propose to you."
"Supposing he has done so?"
"Well--did you accept him?"
"What do you think?"
she asked.
"I don't quite see how you could--under the circumstances."
"Oh, he'd only had two bottles of champagne," she said, purposely misunderstanding him from pure joy of seeing him flounder.
"I didn't mean that," he went on.
"But, anyway, his conscience will reassert itself, and he'll probably propose again this morning--ponderously."
"And you're afraid I might accept?"
"I'm sure you'd make a most charming step-mamma," he replied, "only--"

"Only what?"
"Only the--the others might object, mightn't they?"
"The others?"
"All the men you've married," he blurted out, "if you will have it."
"I see," she said meditatively.
"And you don't want to run the 'dear Bishop' in for another scandal."
"Of course, if you choose to put it that way--"

"It's the way you'd put it if you only had the pluck," she retorted.
"Are you awfully angry with me?"
he asked, looking at her.
"Not a bit," she replied.
"From your point of view it's quite justifiable, I suppose, and I'm only considering the best way out of the dilemma."
"Are there several?"
"There's only one that I care to choose."
"And that is?"
"I shall marry again."
"Good heavens!
not--!"
"Not your father, no; some one else."
"But surely--!"
"You see," she continued calmly, ignoring his interruption, "if I marry some one at once your father can't have any feeling of--shall we say responsibility?
And it'll not be necessary for me to go into what Miss Matilda would call 'my shameful past.'"
"But I really couldn't allow--"

"Oh, I'm not going to marry you either, so you needn't be alarmed.
Can't you make some suggestions to help me out?"
"I am afraid you must excuse me," he said, fast becoming scandalised at her matter-of-fact way of approaching the subject.
"Well, of course," she went on thoughtfully, "there are all your father's chaplains, but they're young, and prone to take things seriously.
No, I don't think they'd do.
And there's the butler.
No, he wouldn't answer, either."
"Perhaps Miss Matilda would lend you Professor Smith."
"No," she said, "I don't think I'd have the heart to deprive her of him.
On the whole, I think I'll marry Mr. Spotts.
He's nice--and handy."
"But mightn't he have something to say?"
began Banborough.
"Probably," admitted Violet; "but he generally does what he's told, and as he isn't married to any one else, I dare say he'll prove amenable when he understands the position.
I'll try and see him this morning, and," as a brilliant idea struck her, "your father shall perform the ceremony.
I never was married by a Bishop before.
Won't it be jolly!"
"You surely can't seriously intend--" began Cecil.
"Yes, I do.
Now don't be stupid, but run along and let me finish my toilet."
And she ran out of the room.
Banborough walked away in a maze.
He had thought to straighten matters out, and he had only got them into a far worse tangle.
That Miss Arminster had no conscientious scruples about adding another husband to her quota was bad enough, but that his innocent, unsuspecting father should be allowed to disgrace his cloth by solemnising such a marriage was really more than he could stand.
In his righteous wrath he determined that the Bishop should know the whole truth, soothing his conscience by the thought that if he did not tell him, Miss Matilda would.
In the hall of the palace, however, he ran across Spotts, laden with the implements of golf, and all unconscious of his impending fate.
"Look here, old man," said Cecil, "I want to have five minutes' chat with you."
"I am quite at your service," replied his friend.
"In fact I was just coming to look you up myself.
Now that the war's over, I must really be thinking of going away, as I've imposed long enough already on your hospitality."
"Oh, it isn't about that I want to see you," said Banborough.
"It's about your getting married."
"My getting married?"
queried Spotts.
"Yes.
It seems there's a lady who has matrimonial designs on you.
I thought it was only the part of a friend to warn you in due season."
"If it's your aunt," returned the actor, "I'm very much obliged.
I think I could manage to get packed up and leave by the afternoon train."
"No, no; it isn't so bad as that," said his host.
"Or, rather, it's worse.
Miss Arminster has you under consideration."
"As a husband?"
"Yes.
I think she means to marry you to-morrow or next day, and have my father perform the ceremony."
"Oh, I see.
And you've some feeling about it."
"Well, yes," admitted Cecil, "I'm afraid I have."
"I suppose you'd like to take my place?"
"No, it isn't that either.
Yon don't seem to see the point.
Miss Arminster wants to marry _you_."
"Well, isn't that a question between Miss Arminster and myself?"
"Naturally.
But then she's married pretty frequently, hasn't she?
Of course, if all her husbands are dead--"

"Oh, no," said Spotts.
"I don't think she's ever lost a husband."
"But you surely can't contemplate--" began Cecil.
"Well, you see," contended the actor, "this is the first time she's ever asked me to marry her, and one can't be so ungallant as to refuse a lady."
"And you'll really add yourself to her list?"
Spotts shrugged his shoulders.
"My dear fellow," he said, "I don't want to appear rude, but this interference in my prospective matrimonial affairs seems to me ill-timed.
Miss Arminster hasn't as yet proposed to me, and if she does, I'll probably consent to oblige her.
Anyway, it's doing you a favour, as I suppose your father would wish to marry her if I didn't."
And turning on his heel, he walked away.
As he ascended the stairs, he met Violet coming down.
They were standing on the broad landing, and for the moment were quite alone and out of earshot.
"I say!"
burst out the actor.
"Do you know I have just been warned against you by your friend Banborough.
A joke's a joke, but this is going too far."
"I know, Alvy," she said, "I know, and I'm awfully sorry.
But it's almost over."
"I hope it is," he replied.
"I have held an equivocal position for months, and it isn't pleasant.
Why, I've practically seen nothing of you."
"It hasn't been pleasant for me either, old man.
But, to speak frankly, you know as well as I do that it's been largely a sentimental interest which has caused Cecil to get us all out of this scrape.
However, if he doesn't tell his father to-day--and I tried hard enough to force him to do so this morning--I shall."
"Good!
Then his Lordship's Leopard will be free," said Spotts.
And pressing her hand, he proceeded on his way upstairs.
In the face of his two interviews, Cecil felt he had no option but to refer the whole matter to the Bishop, whom he found in his study.
He received a somewhat grim reception from the old gentleman, to whom a sleepless night had afforded ample opportunity for reflecting on the vagaries of his son, to which he, not altogether unjustly, attributed his adventures of the preceding day.
After formal salutations had been exchanged, the younger man, feeling that a disagreeable business was the better over, lost no time in coming to the point.
"I don't know that there's anything to be said about the past, father," he began.
"I should think there was a great deal to be said," returned his Lordship brusquely.
"But this is perhaps not the best time to say it.
I've been told a very astonishing story by Miss Arminster."
"About the Black Maria and--the Spanish plot?"
"About your wretched novel, sir!"
"Ah, yes.
Well, I corroborate it all, word for word.
Miss Arminster told me about it this morning."
"You've seen her, then?"
"Yes.
We had a chat concerning a number of things.
But, as you suggest, we might reserve the discussion of our joint American experiences till another occasion, so I won't mention them beyond apologising to you for having blacked your eye under the bar; though of course I could hardly have supposed that your ecclesiastical duties would have placed you in just that position."
"Say, rather, the search for an unregenerate son," suggested the Bishop, with a twinkle in his eye which showed him to be in better humour.
"Well, anyway, you gave as good as you got," said Cecil.
"My ribs were sore for a week afterwards."
"Ah," replied his Lordship.
"I thought I must have landed you one.
I haven't quite forgotten the athletics of my college days."
"Then we're quits," returned Cecil.
"But it was more than good of you to come out there and look for me.
A father who could do all that deserves a somewhat better son than I've been in the past; and in the future--"

"Don't say it, Cecil.
I know it."
And the Bishop gripped his hand in a way that caused the mental and moral atmosphere to clear instantly.
"And now," said his son, "I want to talk about Miss Arminster."
"It's the subject nearest my heart," replied his father.
"I asked her to marry me at Montreal," Cecil remarked simply.
"So I inferred from what she said on the yacht," said his Lordship.
"And you proposed to her yesterday."
"Did she tell you?"
"Yes."
"Well?"
"Well, the fact is she doesn't want to marry either of us."
The Bishop nodded his head despondently.
"But," continued the younger man, "she contemplates marrying some one else."
"Ah," said his Lordship, "I'm heartily glad she proposes to _marry_--after yesterday."
"Quite so, and she means to ask you to perform the ceremony."
"Isn't that rather--"

"Rubbing it in?"
suggested Cecil.
"So it seemed to me."
"Who is the--er--prospective bride-groom?"
"Spotts."
"He seems a good fellow."
"Yes, but--will you forgive me if I speak frankly?
There can't be any feeling of jealousy between us; we've both been worsted."
"What do you wish to say?"
"That I'm afraid this marriage must not be permitted.
You see, Miss Arminster isn't quite what she seems."
"If you're going to say anything against that young lady--!"
began his Lordship angrily.
"You forget," said his son, "I wanted to marry her."
His father remembered; and remembering, said:

"Proceed."
"Well, I found out, for myself I mean, that Miss Arminster had been married a number of times."
"A number of times!"
"Half a dozen at least.
Perhaps more."
"Impossible!"
"She admitted as much to me."
"But surely--!"
"As far as I know, none of her husbands has died."
"In America," began the Bishop, "the divorce laws are lax, and perhaps--"

"Oh, no, I'm sure she hasn't been divorced.
I don't think she'd approve of it."
"But then--it means--"

"Yes, that's just the point.
And so another marriage with this Mr. Spotts--"

"Must be stopped at all costs!"
cried his Lordship, growing very red in the face with agitation.
"I thought you'd feel so," said his son.
"And that's why I ventured--"

At this moment Miss Matilda entered the room.
"What are you talking about, Josephus?"
she demanded, assuming a domination of which she felt by no means sure.
"Did I hear you mention that hussy's name?"
"I was speaking," said the Bishop, "of _Miss Arminster_.
Cecil tells me she's to marry Mr.
Spotts."
"That's impossible," snapped Miss Matilda.
"What do you mean?"
asked her brother.
"I mean what I say.
While you were shamelessly gallivanting down the Channel, I went over to the little church near the ruined abbey which you visited the day you met Mr. Marchmont, and there I found a record of the marriage, in 1895, of this _person_ who calls herself _Miss_ Arminster, and I say she can't marry Mr.
Spotts."
"Why not?"
"Because she's married to him already!"
CHAPTER VII.
IN WHICH MISS ARMINSTER VERIFIES THE PROVERB.
The Bishop was pacing his garden.
He was far from happy.
It is true he had not been worsted in his encounter with his sister.
There had been a drawn battle, and he had retired with dignity, conceding nothing but that he would ask Miss Arminster to come to his study at noon and explain her position.
He could not believe the charges against the charming Violet, but nevertheless he felt decidedly uncomfortable: for even if she cleared herself, she was still married, and the palace lacked a mistress.
It was easy to say that Miss Matilda should be deposed, but who should take her place?
Not another man's wife, certainly.
For the first time in all these years, his Lordship realised how lonely he had been.
He should have remarried long before, and indeed even so unworldly a person as he knew that more than one young lady in Blanford would have viewed with complacency the prospect of becoming Mrs. Bishop.
A young wife, however, even as attractive as the fair Violet, was not, he told himself, exactly what he wanted.
He had tried a period of double rule in which his sister was the power behind the throne, and it was infinitely worse than the present regime.
No; if he took another helpmate, she must be a person of strong will, some one who could hold her own against all comers, some one who should have an inexhaustible fund of sympathy for his work, some one whose appreciation of the exalted position of the Bishop of Blanford should be so great as to blind her, occasionally at least, to those minor faults to which, Scripture tells us, all flesh is heir.
It was at just this point in his meditations that his Lordship, turning sharply round the corner of a large gooseberry-bush, came suddenly upon Mrs. Mackintosh.
Their surprise was mutual, for the good lady had evidently been gardening, and was suffering from the rigour of the game.
"That head man of yours is a duffer," she said sharply, pointing a very earthy trowel at the unconscious figure of the gardener, who was busy in the middle distance digging potatoes.
"A man," she continued, "who calls a plain, every-day squash a vegetable marrow isn't fit to run a well-ordered truck-patch; though it's no more than might be expected in a country where they sell bread by the yard, and flour by the gallon.
And what, I should like to know, is a 'punnet'?"
"I'm afraid, madam, I must confess my ignorance," replied the Bishop.
"I thought as much," she retorted.
"And yet they put you in command of a diocese.
Your gardener said to me this morning: 'I'll pick a "punnet" of strawberries to-day.'
'You'll do nothing of the kind,' I told him.
'Pick them in a Christian basket, or not at all.'"
His Lordship laughed.
"It's some sort of measure, I imagine," he remarked.
"I shouldn't wonder.
And your cook's just as bad.
She asked me yesterday if I liked jugged hare.
'Let me see your jug,' said I, 'and then I'll tell you.'
And as sure's I'm a sinner, she told me she never used one for that dish!"
"Now you speak of it," said his Lordship, "I don't think I ever saw one myself.
But what are you doing this morning?"
"Straightening the peas."
"Straightening the peas?"
he asked, thoroughly mystified.
"Yes, they're all waggly.
When I plant my garden I take a string and two pegs and plant the seed along a line; but these just seem to be put in anyhow."
"Is it good for the peas?"
asked the Bishop suspiciously, as he saw them being rooted up and reset.
"I can't say," she returned sharply.
"But things ought to be straight at an episcopal palace, if they are anywhere."
"So they should," he admitted mournfully, "but it's far from being the case.
That's why I came out to consult you."
"Go ahead, then.
You talk, and I'll dig."
And while the plants were being arranged to an ecclesiastical standard, he retailed to her the charges against Violet.
"Do you believe them?"
she asked, jamming her trowel up to its hilt in the soft earth.
"Of course I do not."
"Right you are," she said.
"I know the whole story, and it's nothing to be ashamed of, I give you my word."
"You relieve me immensely."
"It's merely American enterprise," continued the old lady.
"That's why they call her the Leopard."
"The Leopard-- I don't understand.
She asked me to call her that."
"Well, I won't steal her thunder.
She'll tell you herself."
"But she is married?"
"Oh, yes."
The Bishop sighed.
"That disappoints you?"
said Mrs. Mackintosh thoughtfully, balancing a pea-plant in her hand.
"Yes; at least I'd hoped--"

"I know.
She told me.
We haven't any secrets from each other."
"You see," continued his Lordship, "if my sister leaves me, I must have some one to take her place; otherwise--"

"She won't go."
"Yes," said the Bishop; "that's just the point."
"You ought to marry at once."
"I feel that myself; but then, you see, there's no one who would care to marry me--no one at least who--"

"You don't want a young chit."
"No," said his Lordship.
"Somebody more like you."
Mrs. Mackintosh paused in her gardening.
"Look here," she said.
"Are you going to propose to me next?"
"I--was--thinking of it," admitted the Bishop.
"As a last resource?"
"My dear Mrs.
Mackintosh!"
"I don't know as I ever could be a bishopess," replied that lady, inadvertently resetting a pea-plant upside down.
"There's Jonah," said the Bishop, resorting to diplomacy.
"I shall never be able to complete that last volume without the spur of your appreciative criticism."
"Well," she replied, partially relenting, "I'd do a good deal for--Jonah."
"Then you will!"
he cried.
"I've one row of those peas left," she returned, "and when I've reset them I'll give you your answer.
That'll be in fifteen minutes.
Now go away, or you'll fidget round, and I sha'n't get 'em straight."
And without another word she resumed her digging.
Fifteen minutes later his Lordship was at her side.
"There's one more plant left," remarked Mrs. Mackintosh, cleaning her trowel and addressing herself to the task.
"And are you going to say Yes when you have finished?"
"Yes," said the lady, "I am, but it's mostly on account of Jonah."
The Bishop ruthlessly set his foot on the tender shoot which intervened between him and happiness, crushing it to the earth.
Some time later Mrs. Mackintosh remarked:

"The cathedral clock is striking twelve, and you're due in the study."
"You mean, my dear, that _we_ are due," replied his Lordship.
*       *       *       *       *

On their arrival in the Bishop's sanctum, they found the full force of the company assembled to receive them.
Miss Matilda looked on this gathering with suspicion.
"I do not see," she said, "the need of so many witnesses to what must prove, I fear, a humiliating confession."
"I've come," returned Mrs. Mackintosh, "to lend moral support to--" She glanced at the Bishop, changed her mind, and supplemented--"Miss Arminster."
"Shall I speak?"
asked Miss Matilda, ignoring her remark.
"I will speak," said his Lordship.
"It is my house, and my place to do so."
His sister sat down hurriedly.
"I've sent for you, my dear," he continued, turning to Violet, "because certain charges have been made against you by Mr. Marchmont and--others, and, as my son informs me that you contemplate marrying Mr. Spotts, and asking me to perform the ceremony, I feel it is my duty--"

"She's already--" broke in his sister.
"I am speaking, Matilda," he said quietly, and she collapsed.
"You mustn't think," he went on, "that my asking you to explain your position implies any belief on my part in the charges made against you.
I've only requested this interview because I thought you'd like an opportunity to disprove idle gossip."
"It's very kind of you," she replied, "and I shall avail myself of it gladly."
"Quite so.
Now my sister tells me that she's seen, in a neighbouring church, the record of your marriage to Mr. Spotts.
Is this so?"
"Certainly," said Violet.
"I married him there in 1895."
Miss Matilda sniffed viciously.
"Mr. Marchmont," continued the Bishop, "in whose statements, I need hardly say, I place no reliance, informed my sister that you had been married with unusual frequency; and my son tells me, also, that you've admitted to him a--er--a considerable number of--er--matrimonial alliances.
Would you--er--er--consider it an intrusion on my part if I asked how many times you have been married?"
"I've had the marriage service performed over me," she replied, "thirty-seven times in four years."
Miss Matilda threw up her hands in an access of horror.
"But your husbands--" stammered his Lordship.
"I never had but one husband," she said.
"And here he stands."
And she took Spotts's hand in hers.
"Bless my soul!"
exclaimed the Bishop.
"You surely haven't married him thirty-seven times?"
"Yes, that is exactly the case," she returned.
"But I don't understand."
"The explanation is very simple," she replied.
"My husband and I are both actors.
He plays the part of the hero, and I the part of the heroine.
In the fifth act, after many struggles and disappointments, we're at last united.
To have the marriage ceremony actually performed on the stage, or the next day at church, has always proved a great attraction to our audiences.
At first I objected.
But I've been informed by a competent authority in my own country that there's no canonical rule against it, and in remarrying my husband I merely renew my vows to him, and I've never once gone through the ceremony lightly or thoughtlessly.
I do not defend the practice, or expect you to approve of it, and, now that you know the truth, I shouldn't think of asking you to marry us again; but I don't consider that I've done anything of which I need be ashamed."
"Dear me!"
said the Bishop.
"In my ecclesiastical position I can hardly approve of the course you've taken; but as a man--well, it's a great relief to me."
"I consider it a sacrilege," exclaimed Miss Matilda, "and, as I remarked to Cecil this morning, that young person leaves the palace to-day, or I do!"
"You'll naturally act as seems to you best," said her brother.
"But I beg you to remember that I'm master of this house, and that this lady is my guest."
"And who, pray, will keep your house for you when I'm gone?"
she snapped.
"I'm sure that Mrs. Spotts will attend to it for me until Mrs. Mackintosh and I are married."
"Till you're married!"
his sister repeated after him, too astounded to grasp fully the meaning of his words.
"It is an event which I hope will occur shortly," her brother replied.
"That's enough!"
she retorted.
"I leave Blanford this afternoon!"
"I trust you'll not go in anger, Matilda," he said.
"I'm sure a change will do you good.
Miss Arminster--I mean Mrs. Spotts--suggests a course of mud-baths; and if you'll permit me to assume the expense--"

"Josephus!"
she returned shortly, "do not add insult to injury."
And she swept from the room.
"I, too," said Professor Tybalt Smith, who had hitherto remained silent--"I, too, must be permitted to excuse myself.
It may be that I can comfort that injured lady in her exile."
And he followed her out.
"Oh, I'm delighted!"
cried Violet, seizing Mrs. Mackintosh's hand.
"And I, too," said Cecil.
"Thank you," replied his stepmother-to-be.
"That pleases me more than anything else.
I hope you'll really make Blanford your home."
"I shall indeed," he returned, "since no one will have me as a husband."
"You've the great success of your book to comfort you," suggested Violet.
"What more can you ask?"
"Well, as it seems a day of explanations," he said, "I should really like to know why you're called 'the Leopard'?"
"It's a very trifling secret after all," she replied, laughing.
"But to have let you know it would have given away our little plot.
Now it doesn't matter.
Tell him, Alvy."
"It's merely this," said her husband gaily: "that, as much as she may marry, HIS LORDSHIP'S LEOPARD CAN NEVER CHANGE HER SPOT(T)S."

