I

Mr. Josiah Moggridge was haunted by Zeppelins!
It is true that he had not seen one, had never even heard a bomb explode, or a gun fired in anger; still he was obsessed with the idea of the "Zeppelin Menace."
He read every article and paragraph dealing with the subject in all the newspapers and magazines he came across.
His children jackalled industriously for this food for their parent.
If Dorothy, who was as pretty as she was romantic, arrived home late, her olive-branch would be some story or article about Zeppelins.
If Alan, who was sixteen and endowed with imagination, got into a scrape, it was a Zeppelin "rumour" that got him out of it.
Mr. Moggridge journeyed far and near in search of the destruction caused by these air monsters.
Had the British public known what Mr. Moggridge knew "for a fact," the war would have collapsed suddenly.
No nation could be expected to stand up against the "frightfulness" that was to come, according to Mr. Moggridge.
In regard to Zeppelins the German people themselves were sceptics compared with Mr. Moggridge.
The slightest hint or rumour of a Zeppelin raid would send him off hot-foot in search of the ruin and desolation spread by these accursed contrivances.
The Moggridge girls came in for many delightful excursions in consequence, for Mr. Moggridge was never happy unless he had about him some of his numerous progeny.
If Irene wanted to see the daffydowndillies in Kew Gardens, it seemed almost an interposition of providence that she should hear there had been a Zeppelin raid near Richmond.
In justice to her it must be admitted that she would discredit the rumour; but nothing, not even an Act of Parliament, could turn Mr. Moggridge from the pursuit of his hobby.
No amount of discouragement seemed to affect him.
If he drew a blank at Balham, he would set out for Stratford with undiminished ardour.
Should Holloway fail him, then Streatham would present the scene of desolation he dreaded, yet sought so assiduously.
"Man never is but always to be blest," might have been the motto of Josiah Moggridge.
Mrs. Moggridge was the type of woman who regards her husband as something between a god and a hero.
To Mr. Moggridge she herself was always "Mother," and as if in justification of the term, she had presented him with one son, and eight daughters, whose ages ranged from eleven to twenty-two.
Having done this Mrs. Moggridge subsided into oblivion.
She had done her "bit," to use the expression of a later generation.
Her attitude towards life was that of a hen that has reached the dazzling heights of having produced from thirteen eggs thirteen pullets.
She was a comfortable body, as devoid of imagination as an ostrich.
Her interests were suburban, her name was Emma, and her waist measurement thirty-eight inches on Sundays and forty-two inches during the rest of the week.
Mr. Moggridge was forever on the alert for the detonation of bombs and the boom of anti-aircraft guns.
At night he would listen earnestly for the sound of the trains that passed at the bottom of the Moggridge garden.
If the intervals between the dull rumblings seemed too prolonged, he would start up and exclaim, "I believe they’ve stopped," which as everybody knows meant Zeppelins.
One night after the first Zeppelin raid (it is not permitted by the Defence of the Realm Act to say where or when this occurred, or, for that matter, in what part of the United Kingdom the Moggridges resided), Patricia Moggridge, a petite brunette of twenty, all the Moggridge girls were pretty, enquired, "What shall we do, dad, if Zeppelins come to Cedar Avenue?"
Mr. Moggridge had sat up in sudden alarm.
Here was he responsible for the protection of a family, yet he had taken no steps to ensure its safety.
Patricia’s remark set him thinking deeply.
He loved his family, and his family adored him.
They regarded him as a child that has to be humoured, rather than a parent who has to be feared.
They obeyed him because they wished to see him happy, and Mr. Moggridge’s conception of manhood was that "an Englishman’s home is his castle."
He was short and round and fussy, as full of interest as a robin, as explosive as a bomb; but with eyes that smiled and a nature that would have warmed an ice-box.
A crisis or a misadventure excited him almost to the point of frenzy.
Starting for the annual holiday drove him nearly insane with worry lest someone or something be left behind, or they lose the train.
When Patricia asked her innocent question she was sitting on her father’s knee "nuzzling his whiskers," as she called it, Mr. Moggridge wore side whiskers and a clean shaven upper lip and chin, she was unaware of what would grow out of her question.
Mr. Moggridge read industriously the advice tendered by various newspapers as to what should be done during a Zeppelin raid.
He read with the seriousness of a man who knows that salvation lies somewhere in the columns of the Press.
One night he gathered together the whole of his family in the drawing-room, including the two maids and the cook, and instructed all in what should be done at the sound of the first gun.
He made many references to a sheaf of notes and newspaper-cuttings he had before him, which seemed to get terribly mixed.
He then enquired if everyone understood; but the half-hearted chorus of "Yeses" that answered him was unconvincing.
"Cook," he said sternly, "what would you do if Zeppelins came?"
"Please, sir, faint," was the reply.
The interrogation of other members of his household convinced him that a further exposition was necessary.
Stripped of their verbal adornments, Mr. Moggridge’s instructions were that on the first intimation that Zeppelins were at hand, the whole household was to make for the basement.
Half-an-hour’s further "instruction" left everyone still more hopelessly befogged as to what was expected of them.
The gist of Mr. Moggridge’s instructions was:

(1) That everyone should make for the cellar without bothering about dressing.
(2) That every bath, portable or fixed, tub, jug, or other vessel was each night to be filled with water, and placed on the landings as a protection against incendiary bombs.
(3) That under no circumstances was any light to be turned on (as a precaution Mr. Moggridge turned off the electric light each night) or candle to be lit.
"But how shall we find our way downstairs?"
enquired Allan, his son and heir.
"You’ll feel it, my boy," replied his father, unconsciously prophetic.
A few days later Mr. Moggridge read of the intention of the Germans to use gas-bombs, and he immediately purchased at Harridges Stores fourteen "Protective Face Masks."
That night he returned home feeling that he had saved fourteen lives, including his own.
After dinner the household was once more summoned to the drawing-room, where Mr. Moggridge distributed the gas-masks, and gave a short lecture upon how they were to be worn.
When he illustrated his instructions by donning a mask, the younger of the two maids giggled uncontrollably.
Mr. Moggridge glared at her volcanically.
"Girl!"
he thundered, "do you know that I am trying to save your life."
Whereat the girl burst into tears.
Mr. Moggridge rustled about among his notes anxiously, whilst his hearers watched him with breathless interest.
He soon saw that no help was to be expected from the Press, which appeared to be divided into two camps.
There was the bomb theory and the gas theory, the one demanding descent and the other ascent.
Mr. Moggridge was nonplussed and referred to the gas-bomb article.
Suppose explosive bombs were dropped when they were prepared for gas-bombs and conversely?
Suddenly he had an inspiration.
"I’ve got it!"
he shouted, as he danced excitedly from one foot to the other.
"If you smell gas you go up to the attics: if you——"

"But how shall we know it’s gas unless we know what it smells like?"
questioned Alan.
Mr. Moggridge looked at his only son as at someone who had asked him the riddle of the universe.
Alan was notorious for the embarrassing nature of his questions.
"I shall know how to find that out," was all that Mr. Moggridge could reply, and Alan felt that he had obtained a tactical victory.
"In the meantime, if you smell anything you’ve never smelt before you’ll know it’s gas."
This seemed to satisfy everyone.
Nevertheless, Mr. Moggridge made industrious enquiry as to what gas really smelt like.
No one knew; but many theories as to the exact odour were advanced, ranging from vinegar to sewage.
At last Mr. Moggridge heard of a man who had actually been gassed.
Eagerly he made a pilgrimage to the district in which the hero resided and as eagerly put his question.
"Wot’s gas smell like?"
remarked the warrior, whose moustache was as yet reluctant down upon his upper lip.
"It beats the smell of army cheese ’ollow, an’ that’s the truth."
And with this Mr. Moggridge had to rest content.
In the silent watches of the night, many a member of the Moggridge household would awaken suddenly and sniff expectantly for "a strange odour rather like strong cheese," Mr. Moggridge’s paraphrase of the soldier’s words.
Mr. Moggridge decided to sleep at the top of the house—alone.
He had moved up there and sent down two of the girls to sleep with their mother, because he regarded the upper rooms as the most dangerous, and he was not lacking in courage.
He regarded it as his mission in life to protect those who looked to him for protection.
In his mind’s eye, Mr. Moggridge saw himself the saviour of thirteen lives, possibly fourteen if he had not to give up his own in the attempt.
Each night it was his self-imposed task to examine "the defences" as his daughter, Mollie, called them.
On every landing and outside every door were baths, wash-tubs, basins, pails and other vessels containing water.
Even when the lights were on, it was a matter of some delicacy to thread one’s way through these watery entanglements.
The servants grumbled at the additional work involved; but Mr. Moggridge had silenced them with "a Zeppelin bonus," as he called it, and furthermore he had mobilised his whole family to assist in this work of protection against fire.
"When I’ve saved your worthless lives, you’ll be grateful perhaps," he had exploded, and it had taken "Mother" all the next morning to explain to her domestic staff that "valuable" and not "worthless" was the adjective her husband had used.
Outside his own bedroom-door Mr. Moggridge had placed the large dinner gong on which to sound the alarm, and at the head of the stairs an enormous tin-bath full of water.
It was so placed that the slightest push would send bath and contents streaming down the stairs.
Mr. Moggridge argued that no fire could live in such a deluge.
In time Mr. Moggridge came to regard himself as something between a Sergeant O’Leary and the Roman Sentry, with a leaning towards the sentry; for there would be no reward for him.
He saw his family safe and sound, whilst his neighbours lay maimed and dying.
"We are at war, my dears," he would inform his family, "and war is different from peace," and there were none who felt they could question this profound truth.
*II*

The night of November 5th was bleak and cold and misty, and as Mr. Moggridge prepared for the night he shivered, and prayed that no Zeppelins might come.
He disliked the cold intensely, and pictured to himself the unpleasantness of sitting for hours in a damp cellar with very few clothes on.
Sleep always came readily to Mr. Moggridge’s eye-lids, and within five minutes of extinguishing the light and slipping into bed, his heavy breathing announced that he was in the land of wonder that knows and yet does not know a Zeppelin.
How long he had slept Mr. Moggridge had no idea; but he was awakened by what he afterwards described as "a terrific explosion" just beneath his window.
"At last!"
was his mental comment as he sprang out of bed, sniffing the air like a cat that smells fish.
He rushed to the window and looked out.
There were no search lights to be seen; but another explosion, apparently in his own garden sent him bounding from the window to the door.
Seizing the handle he tore it open and, grasping the leather-headed hammer, began to pound the dinner-gong as if his salvation depended upon his efforts.
"Zeppelins," he yelled, "Zeppelins."
There were sounds of doors opening, a babel of voices, a scream and then a soft-padded rush upstairs.
"Don’t come up here!
Go down to the cellar," he shouted and, seizing the gong, he dashed for the stairs.
There was another report, and an "Oh my God!"
from the cook, followed by a peal of hysterical laughter from the younger of the maids.
There was a yelp, a swiiiiiish of rushing water, a pandemonium of feminine shrieks, a tremendous clatter of metal and crockery, as bath caught pail, and pail overset jug to add to the torrent that rushed down the staircase like a flood.
Mr. Moggridge had stumbled against the big bath!
The avalanche caught the Moggridges in the rear, shriek followed agonised shriek, as the cold water struck the slightly clad bodies, the shrieks crystallised into yells of anguish as the baths, jugs and bowls came thundering after the water.
It seemed the object of animate and inanimate alike to get to the ground floor first.
At each landing there was a momentary pause, just as a wave will poise itself before crashing forward, then more crashes and shrieks and groans.
All had lost their foothold, and were inextricably mixed up with baths and bits of crockery.
At last the torrent reached the hall, where it lay gasping and choking, wondering if this were death or the after punishment.
"My God!"
shrieked Mr. Moggridge.
"Gas!"
He had forgotten his mask.
He struggled to rise, but the cook and half a foot-bath were firmly fixed upon his person.
He could merely lie and sniff—and pray.
The air was foul with an acrid smell that seemed to have permeated everything.
To the Moggridges, heaped on the cold hall-tiles, saturated and bruised, it carried a more conclusive proof of danger than the buffeting received in the dash downstairs.
It was Gas!
Gas!!
Gas!!!
They would be ruined for life, even if they escaped death.
Above the wails of the Moggridges and their retainers could be heard explosion after explosion from without.
Policemen’s whistles were singing their raucous, terrifying note.
A female voice was heard laughing and sobbing wildly—the cook was in hysterics, whilst at last from an inextricable heap of human limbs and bodies rose the courageous voice of Mr. Moggridge.
"Keep cool, keep calm," he besought.
"You are quite safe here.
You’ve got your gas masks.
We——"

He was interrupted by a heavy and imperious pounding upon the knocker, and a continuous sounding of the spring bell.
A disc of light could be seen through the stained-glass windows of the hall.
From the shivering heap there was no movement to open the door, nothing but cries and sobs and moans.
The pounding continued, punctuated by occasional explosions from without.
It was Alan who at last crept out of the corner from which he had watched the avalanche of his family and its servitors, and went to the door, unbolting it and admitting what appeared to be two rays of light.
They ferreted about until they fell on the heap of Moggridges.
Alan’s first thought had been to turn on the electric light at the meter.
He now switched on the hall lights, discovering two policemen and two special constables, who in turn discovered Mr. Moggridge.
He had wriggled into a sitting posture, where he remained grasping the dinner gong, as Nero might have grasped his instrument when disaster overtook Rome, surrounded and held down by his progeny.
"Oh, turn off the light, do, please!"
pleaded a voice, and there was a chorus of cries and endeavours to make scanty draperies cover opulent limbs; but the water had done its work, and one of the policemen, remembering that he had sisters, turned his head aside, and the "specials," for the first time since they had been enrolled, decided that it wasn’t so lacking in incident after all, whilst owners and possessors of Moggridge limbs sought to hide them beneath other Moggridge limbs, and those who could not do so hid their faces.
*III*

"You done fine!"
A happy grin spread itself over the features of the speaker, a little man with a red nose, a green baize apron and a blue and white cricket cap, much the worse for wear.
"You done fine," he repeated, and then as if to himself, "Yes, them big crackers do make an ’ell of a row."
And Joseph Bindle looked at Alan Moggridge approvingly.
"Wasn’t it lucky I went to help Aunt Mary move?
If I hadn’t I shouldn’t have seen you and——"

"And there wouldn’t a been no Zeppelin raid round your way.
Well you ’ave to thank Dr. Little for the stuff wot made ’em think it was gas-bombs!
Fancy them runnin’ in your old dad for lettin’ off fireworks.
So long, sonny," and with a nod and a grin Bindle passed on, wondering if Mrs. Bindle had stewed-steak and onions for supper.
"Oh!
Mr.
Bindle!"
expostulated Sallie when the story came to an end.
Then after a pause she added, "Don’t you think it was a little cruel?"
There was concern upon Bindle’s face: he was troubled that Sallie should criticise him.
He looked from her to me, as if desirous that I should share some of the responsibility.
It was the first time I had ever seen Bindle abashed.
The dear chap is in reality as tender-hearted as a woman, and it was evident that, for the first time, he saw things as they appeared to Sallie.
"Well, miss," he said at last.
"I ’adn’t thought of it that way.
I’m sorry for them gals," but in spite of himself the flicker of a grin passed across his features.
"I was only thinkin’ o’ the old man wot didn’t ought to be allowed to go about scarin’ people out o’ their senses.
I’m sorry, miss," and Bindle really was sorry.
For the rest of the evening it was easy to see that he regarded himself as in disgrace.
The way in which his eyes kept wandering to where Sallie was sitting, reminded me of a dog that has been scolded, and watches wistfully for the sign that shall tell him all is forgiven.
When Bindle returned from seeing Sallie into her taxi, I could see that the cloud had been brushed aside; for he was once more his old jovial self.
J.B. is a strange creature, as mischievous as a monkey; but as lovable as—well, as a man who is white all through, and as incapable of hurting the helpless as of harming the innocent.
He has probably never heard of the Public School Spirit; yet it has not much to teach him about playing the game.
*CHAPTER XVII*

*SALLIE AT THE WHEEL*

It is one of Windover’s pet theories that if a man will but be natural, he can go anywhere and do anything.
He claims that the Public School benefits a man not by what it bestows; but rather by what it destroys.
"It clips the ragged edges of a man’s ego," he would remark, "and teaches him that as an entity he has no place in the universe."
Windover will talk for hours on this subject.
Simplicity of nature and the faculty of adapting himself to any environment are, according to him, the ideal results the Public Schools achieve.
In all probability Bindle never had any ragged edges to his ego.
Simple-minded and large-hearted, as much at home with the denizens of Mayfair as the inhabitants of Hounsditch, he seems never at a loss.
He is always just Bindle, and that is why everyone seems instinctively to like him.
He always does the right thing, because he knows no wrong thing to do.
Unlike Angell Herald, he is not burdened with two distinct sets of "manners."
Bindle would discuss regicides with Hamlet, or noses with a Cyrano de Bergerac with entire unconsciousness of giving offence.
He is one thing to all men, as Dare once told him, whereat Bindle remarked, "But don’t forget the ladies, sir."
One Sunday evening, just as the Club was breaking up, Sallie remarked to Bindle, "Next Saturday, Mr. Bindle, you must get a whole day’s holiday and come with me for a pic-nic."
"Me, miss?"
enquired the astonished Bindle.
"Me an’ you at a pic-nic.
Well I’m blessed."
Bindle was taken by surprise.
He looked from Sallie to Windover and then to me, as if seeking an explanation of why Sallie should invite him.
"Just we four," Sallie went on in that inimitable way of hers, which would make purgatory a paradise.
"We’ll take the car and luncheon and tea-baskets.
It will be splendid.
You will come Mr. Bindle, won’t you?"
Sallie looked at him with sparkling eyes.
"Come, miss?"
cried Bindle.
"Come?
I’ll come if it costs me Mrs. B.’s love.
You did say a motor car, miss?"
he enquired anxiously, and Sallie’s assurance that she had, seemed all that was necessary to complete his happiness.
That evening Bindle and I left Dick Little’s flat together.
For some time we walked along in silence, each engaged with his own thoughts.
Suddenly Bindle broke the silence.
"Wot did I ought to wear, sir?"
he enquired.
There was a look of anxiety on his face, and unusual corrugations on his forehead.
"Well, J.B.," I remarked, "you’d look nice in muslin with a picture hat."
His reproachful look, however, showed me that I had made a mistake.
"I can’t wear them Oxford togs with ’er," he remarked.
It should be explained that when Bindle went to Oxford, impersonating the millionaire uncle of an unpopular undergraduate, he had been fitted out with a wardrobe to suit the part.
Included in it were a loud black and white check suit, a white waistcoat, a Homburg hat with a puggaree, a red necktie and a cane heavily adorned with yellow metal.
Involuntarily I shuddered at the thought of what Sallie would suffer if Bindle turned up in such a costume.
"No," I said with great seriousness, "they’re not quite suited to motoring.
You must get a new rig out, J.B.," I added.
Still Bindle’s face did not clear, and I guessed that it was a question of finance.
I proffered assistance; but that did not help matters.
It seemed to make things worse: Bindle is very independent.
For some time we walked along in silence.
Suddenly I had an inspiration.
"I’ll sell one of your yarns to an unsuspecting editor," I said, "and we’ll share the plunder.
I’ll advance you something on account of your share."
In a second the clouds disappeared.
"You’re sure it’ll earn enough?"
he enquired suspiciously.
I proceed to swear that it would in a manner that would have made Lars Porsena envious.
I was interrupted by a taxi pulling up with a grind just behind, and Windover jumped out, paid the man and joined us.
"I quite forget," Windover began.
"Sallie told me to arrange to meet at Putney Town Station, she’ll run the car through and pick us up there."
Bindle explained to Windover that the question of his wardrobe had been under discussion and the upshot was that Windover, who is a supreme artist in the matter of clothes, undertook to see Bindle properly turned out.
On Saturday morning I was at the appointed place a few minutes before nine, I looked round for Bindle, and then forgot him in watching the struggles of a horse to drag a heavily-laden coal-cart up the rise where the High Street passes over the railway.
The level reached, the carter drew up to the curb where the horse stood quivering and panting, bathed in sweat.
Suddenly I became aware that one of the men I had observed pushing behind the cart was Bindle; but such a Bindle.
No wonder I had at first failed to recognise a blue-suited, brown-booted, dark-tied Bindle.
Everything about him was the perfection of fit and cut, from his simple crook cane to his wash-leather gloves.
Most wonderful of all, Bindle carried his clothes as if accustomed to them every day of the week.
With perfect gravity he drew off his right glove before shaking hands.
"D’yer like it, sir?"
I drew a sigh of relief.
The vernacular was unchanged; it was still the same Bindle.
"J.B.," I said gravely, "I’ve never seen a better dressed man in my life.
It’s an entire metamorphosis.
";

"There you’re sort o’ wrong, sir.
It’s ’is Lordship.
D’yer think she’ll like it, sir?"
he enquired anxiously.
By "she" I knew he meant Sallie.
"Sure of it," I replied with confidence.
Bindle seemed reassured.
Suddenly his eye caught the black line across the palm of his right glove.
"Look wot I done."
He held out the glove for my inspection as a child might a torn pinafore.
"Wot’ll she think?"
There was anxiety in his voice.
"She’ll be rather pleased when I tell her how it happened," I replied, at which his face cleared.
"I wanted a red tie to sort o’ give it a bite; but ’e wouldn’t ’ave it, so ’ere I am," and Bindle drew on his right glove once more.
"Tell me all about it," I urged.
"Those clothes were made in the West-End, I swear."
"Got it first time, sir," he remarked, as he drew from his breast-pocket a suspicious-looking cigar with an enormous red and gold band round its middle.
"Let me cut it for you," I broke in hastily, seizing the weed without waiting for his acquiescence.
That band would have killed Sallie, so I ripped it off.
As I did so Bindle made a movement as if to stop me, but he said nothing.
As I raised my eyes from the operation, I saw his regretful gaze fixed upon the band lying on the pavement, a shameless splash of crimson and of gold.
Bindle lighted his cigar and I manoeuvred to get to windward of him.
"You was talkin’ about these ’ere duds, sir," remarked Bindle puffing contentedly at what made me pray for Windover’s swift arrival: I do not carry cigars.
"You was right, sir."
"In what?"
I queried.
"They came from Savile Row, from ’is Lordship’s own snips.
You should a seen ’is face when ’is Lordship said ’e was out for reach-me-downs for yours truly."
It was easy to visualise the scene.
Windover easy, courteous, matter-of-fact.
His tailor staggered, yet striving to disguise his astonishment under a veneer of urbanity and "yes-my-lords."
Windover is the most perfectly bred creature I have ever met.
If he were to order riding breeches for a camel, he would do so in such a way that no one would think of laughing, or even regarding it as strange.
"Took me round ’isself everywhere," continued Bindle.
"We got this ’at in Piccadilly, these boots an’ gloves in Bond Street, also the tie."
Bindle looked round cautiously and then bending a little closer he confided, "I’m silk underneath!"
He leaned back upon his stick to see the effect.
I smiled.
"Wi’ funny things round me legs to keep me socks up," and he grinned joyously at the thought of his own splendour.
"What did Mrs. Bindle say?"
I enquired.
"’Ush, sir, ’ush!
She said about every think she could think of, and a good many things she didn’t ought to know.
She talked about Mammon, keepin’ ’oly the Sabbath day, about Abraham’s bosom.
Jest fancy a woman married to a man like me a-talkin’ about another cove’s bosom.
Why can’t she say chest and be respectable?"
"And what did you say?"
I queried.
"Oh!"
replied Bindle, "I jest asked ’er wot ole Abraham did when he got a chill, an’ if ’e called it a cold on ’is bosom?"
I laughed, but Bindle continued seriously, "She arst me where I’d be if the end of the world was to come sudden like."
Scenting a good rejoinder I enquired what he had said.
"I told ’er to look in the saloon-bar first, an’ if I wasn’t there to try the bottle-an’-jug department.
I come away then.
Mrs. B.’s a rummy sort o’ send-off for an ’oliday," he soliloquised.
After a pause he added, "I’d like to ’ave jest a peep at ’eaven to see if Gawd is really like wot Mrs. B. says.
Seems to me ’e must be like one o’ them quick-change coves I seen at the Granville.
Ole War-an-Whiskers [the Kayser] says ’E ’elps the Germans to kill kids an’ ’ack women about, Mrs. B. says ’e’s goin’ to give me pickles when I die, an ole ’Earty seems to think ’E’s collectin’ ’oly greengrocers.
There was one parson chap wot told me that ’E was kind an’ just, with eyes wot smiled.
I don’t see ’ow ’e can be the ole bloomin’ lot cause——"

Bindle suddenly broke off, straightened himself, lifted his hat and proceeded to pull off his glove.
I turned and saw Sallie bringing her "Mercedes" along at a thumping pace.
She bore in towards us and brought the car up in a workmanlike manner.
Windover, who was seated behind her, jumped out.
"Cheer-o!"
said Bindle.
"Cheer-o!"
replied Windover.
Probably it was the first time in his life that he had ever used the expression: he is inclined to be a purist.
"You been stealin’ a march on us, sir," said Bindle.
"I was literally picked out of my taxi," explained Windover, "hardly given time to pay the man, I should say over-pay the man, I had forgotten the war."
I saw from the look in Sallie’s eyes that she was pleased with Bindle’s appearance.
"Jump in," she said.
Sallie is always brisk and business-like when running "Mercy," as she calls her car.
"You must sit by me, Mr.
Bindle."
Bindle’s cup of happiness was now full to overflowing.
When he took his seat beside Sallie I caught his eye.
In it was a look of triumph.
It said clearly, "Jest fancy ’er wantin’ me when she could have a lord."
As we swung up Putney hill, Windover told me of his experiences in clothing Bindle.
At my particular request he also gave me an approximate idea of the sum involved.
It was worthy both of Windover and the West End.
"But my dear Windover," I expostulated, "was silk underwear absolutely necessary for this pic-nic?"
Windover turned upon me a pair of reproachful eyes.
"Phillips is sensitive," he remarked, "and if he knew that any of his ’creations’ were put over anything but silk, he would close my account."
With that I had to rest content.
Personally I had seen no need to take Bindle to Phillips at all; but Windover is an artist, he "composes" his wearing-apparel as a painter composes a picture, or a poet a sonnet.
If providence be discriminating it will punish Windover in the next world for his misdemeanours in this by making him wear odd socks, or a hard hat with a morning coat.
I told him so.
As we talked I noticed Windover snuffing the air like a hound.
He looked at me, then moved the rug to see if there were anything at the bottom of the car.
Finally he smelt the rug, still he seemed dissatisfied, continuing to turn his head from side to side sniffing, as if endeavouring to trace some evil smell.
Finally his eyes fixed themselves on Bindle sitting complacently smoking his cigar.
"Good God!"
he muttered as he screwed his eye-glass into his eye.
"I thought it was a dead dog.
He must have run out of ’coronels.’" I heard him mutter.
"You can’t raise a man from Fulham to Curzon Street in a few hours, Windover," I remarked reproachfully.
"You taught Bindle to remove his glove before shaking hands, and you also gave him very creditable instructions in how to lift his hat so as not to look like a third rate actor in a Restoration melodrama; but you omitted to instruct him in the choice of cigars."
Windover has as delicate a taste in tobacco as in women; in other words he is extremely fastidious.
I watched him as he turned the problem over in his mind.
I could follow his train of thought.
It was obviously impossible to sit inhaling the fumes of Bindle’s cigar.
It was unthinkable again to tell the dear chap it was nothing short of a pollution.
In all probability it was a threepenny cigar, the extra penny being in honour of the occasion.
Therefore some other way out of the difficulty must be devised.
I, had every confidence in Windover and his sense of delicacy.
His eyeglass dropped from his eye, a sure sign that the strain of deep-thinking was past.
Taking his cigar case from his pocket, he tapped Bindle on the shoulder and whispered to him.
Bindle gave a quick look at Sallie, surreptitiously threw away his cigar and accepted one proffered by Windover, the end of which he promptly bit off.
Windover sank back into his seat with a sigh, and I saw Bindle turn to Sallie, who changed speed and put on the brakes.
He then calmly proceeded to light his new cigar, quite unconscious that, in asking her to stop a car going at nearly forty miles an hour, he had transgressed against one of the "Thou shalt nots" of motoring.
"How did you do it?"
I asked Windover.
"I told him that Sallie would be mortally offended if she knew he was smoking one of his own cigars, it was her pic-nic and she had given me some cigars with which to keep him supplied."
Tactful Windover.
Lunch we had in a field well off the main road.
Bindle’s face was a study as we unpacked the luncheon hamper.
Sallie is very thorough, and her pic-nic appointments are the most perfect I have ever encountered, from the folding legless table to the dainty salt-spoons.
For once Bindle was silent; but his eyes were busy.
When the champagne appeared with the ice and the ice-cream cooler, his emotions overcame him.
I heard him mutter to himself, "Well I’m blowed."
During the meal the rest of us talked; but Bindle said little.
"You’re very quiet, Mr. Bindle," said Sallie at last, smiling.
"I’m too ’appy to talk, miss," said Bindle with unusual gravity, and there was a look in his eyes that was more eloquent than his words.
"You see, miss, you can do this any day yer likes, and yer gets sort o’ used to it; but I don’t suppose I shall ever do it again, and I want to make sure that I’m enjoyin’ every bit of it.
I can talk any time."
Sallie turned her head quickly, and I could see that her eyes were moist.
Bindle’s remark was not without its pathos.
After lunch Sallie took Bindle off for a walk, whilst Windover and I stayed by the car.
During the half hour they were absent, only one remark was made as we sat smoking, and that was by Windover.
"I have come to regard Bindle as a social antiseptic," he said.
I knew it had taken Windover since lunch to arrive at this definition.
As the hours sped, Bindle remained silent and Sallie was content to devote herself to the car.
Snug in one of Carruthers’ motor coats, Bindle devoured with his eyes everything he saw; but what a changed Bindle.
There was no cracking jokes, or passing remarks with passers-by.
He did not even look at a public-house.
Instinctively he had adapted himself to his environment.
"I think he’s the most perfect gentle-person I’ve met," Sallie had once said.
After dinner Bindle became more conversational.
It was an evening when the silence could be heard.
In the distance was an occasional moan of a train, or the bark of a dog; but nothing else.
The sky was clear, the sun was spilling itself in deep gold upon the landscape.
The dinner had been good, and within us all was a feeling of content.
"How is Mrs.
Bindle?"
enquired Sallie of Bindle.
"Oh jest ordinary like, miss.
’Er soul still gives ’er a lot o’ trouble."
"Don’t you think," said Sallie with that smile of hers which seemed to disarm her remark of the criticism it contained, "that you sometimes tease her too much?"
Bindle’s grin faded.
"I been thinkin’ that too, miss," he said seriously.
"But some’ow the things seem to come out, an’ I don’t mean ’er no ’arm really, miss."
"I’m sure you don’t," Sallie hastened to say.
"Well, take last night, for instance," said Bindle.
"We was talkin’ about the German Corpse Factory.
I’d been readin’ to ’er from the paper ’ow they turned the poor devils wot ’ad died doin’ their bit to kill our chaps into marjarine, candles, oils for motor-cars, and that sort o’ stuff.
We was ’aving supper an’ I ’appens to say quite innocent like: ’If you an’ me was ’Uns, Lizzie and poor ole ’Earty ’ad died for ’is country, a thing wot ’Earty never will do if ’e can ’elp it, we might be a’spreadin’ of ’im on this ’ere bread, and that there candle might be a bit of ’Earty an’ us not knowin’ it.’  Well, there ain’t much ’arm in that miss, is there?
Yet she said I’d spoilt ’er supper, an’ she pushed the salmon away from ’er an’ said I wasn’t fit to live with, an’ that I’d got a dirty mind."
"J.B.," said Windover.
"My sympathies are entirely with Mrs. Bindle.
Your remark was extremely inappropriate."
Bindle looked round him from one to another.
"Well, sir," he expostulated, "wasn’t I right?"
"It was not a question of right, J.B.," said Windover, with mock severity.
"It was a question of tact."
"Tack!"
said Bindle.
"’Adn’t I taken ’ome a tin of salmon, and when the breeze started didn’t I whistle ’er favourite ’ymn _Gospel Bells_?
Look ’ere, sir, I ain’t got much to learn in the way of tack wi’ women."
"You see," said Sallie gently, "a remark like that sometimes turns people against their food."
"Yes, miss," said Bindle, "that may be; but if you’re a German you never know what you’re spreadin’ on your bread.
It may be your uncle, or it may be somebody else’s uncle, an’ that’s worse still."
"Mr. Bindle," cried Sallie, "if you say another word about anything so horrible I shall—I shall—well, I shall drive on and leave you alone in the field."
"I’m sorry, miss," said Bindle with great seriousness.
"I didn’t know that you—that you——"

"That I was like Mrs. Bindle," interpolated Sallie.
"Good Lord!
miss, you ain’t like ’er."
"Well, let’s change the subject," said Sallie smiling, "or I shan’t be able to eat for a week."
"But it didn’t really spoil ’er supper, miss," said Bindle earnestly.
"She finished the salmon."
For some time we continued to smoke in silence.
"Funny thing, religion," remarked Bindle at last, a propos of nothing; "it seems to get different people different ways.
Now ’Earty and Mrs. B., they seem to think Gawd is near ’em in that smelly little chapel o’ theirs; as for me this is what makes me think o’ Gawd."
And Bindle waved the hand holding his cigar to embrace everything about us.
"But why," enquired Windover wickedly, "should a cigar make you feel nearer to God?"
Bindle turned to Windover and looked him straight in the eyes.
"I wasn’t jokin’, sir," he said simply.
"I beg your pardon, J.B.," and there was a something in Windover’s tone which showed that he regarded the reproof as merited.
"If I was startin’ a religion," continued Bindle, "I’d ’ave people go out in the country, an’ kneel down in a field, an’ look up at the sky when the sun was shinin’.
They’d get a better idea o’ Gawd than wot ’Earty and Mrs. B.’s got."
"You’re a sun-worshipper then," said Sallie.
"Jest fancy anyone who made all this," Bindle’s eyes roamed about him, "wantin’ to grill a poor cove like me because I ain’t done all the things I ought to a’ done."
"But," said Sallie, "don’t you think that everybody has their own idea of God?"
"Yes, miss," said Bindle.
"But they want to ram their own ideas down everybody else’s throat.
I see in the paper the other day, when we brought a Zepp.
down, that they buried all the poor chaps wot was burnt together.
They’re ’Uns," he added; "but you can’t ’elp feelin’ sorry for wot they ’ad to suffer.
They ’ad a clergyman an’ a Catholic priest, to read the burial service over them.
The papers said the priest was there in case some of the dead ’Uns was Catholics.
It looks as if a chap ’adn’t got a chance of goin’ to heaven unless ’e sort of got a ticket from the parson of ’is own church."
Someone has described Anatole France as "a pagan preoccupied with Christ."
The same description applies to Joseph Bindle.
He cannot keep long off the subject of religion, and in all his comments there seems to be the same instinctive groping for light.
"’Earty reminds me of a cove I used to know wot never seemed to get thirsty except when ’e saw a pub; well, ’Earty never seems to feel religious except when ’e sees a chapel, then it sort o’ comes over ’im.
If ’e really feels ’e wants to pray, why can’t ’e kneel down beside ’is own ’taters.
If there’s a Gawd, ’e’s just as much in a greengrocer’s shop as in a dirty little tin chapel, that’s wot I says."
Bindle looked round as if defying contradiction.
"I think you are right," said Sallie; "but you must not forget that Mr. Hearty does not share your views, any more than you share his.
If religion helps people to do good, it doesn’t much matter when they get it, or where they get it from."
"Yes, miss, but does it ’elp?
You remember when the Lusitania went down, well there was a pretty good scrap round Fulham way.
One night they went for a poor chap wot ’ad got a German name, an’ they wrecked ’is shop.
They’d jest got ’old o’ ’im, when a big chap comes up wot’s done time more’n once an’ tells ’em to chuck it.
"’But ’e’s an ’Un,’ yells the crowd.
"’Yus, but there’s only one o’ ’im and there’s ’undreds o’ you,’ says Bill, an’ as they wouldn’t chuck it Bill let fly, an’ there was a pretty old mess."
There was silence for a full minute broken at last by Bindle.
"Don’t you think Gawd likes a man to do wot Bill did, miss?"
enquired Bindle ingenuously.
"I am sure he did," said Sallie, "and what did you do?"
"Oh, I got a black eye, an’ Mrs. B. said she was more sure than ever that ’ell was waitin’ for me.
"Wot does me about religion," continued Bindle after a pause, "is wot people’ll swallow.
There’s Mrs. B. now: she can’t take a pill without a bucket o’ water an’ about a dozen tries, looks like an ’en ’avin’ a drink, she does; yet tell ’er it’s religion an’ she’d swallow anythink, an’ make believe she likes it.
If that whale ’adn’t been religious, ’e’d never ’ave got Jonah down."
Bindle paused and for a few moments watched a trail of white smoke from a distant train.
"There was a cove somewhere in the bible called ’Fairy.’"

"Pharaoh, King of Egypt," murmured Windover.
"That’s ’im, sir," cried Bindle.
"Well look ’ow they say Gawd treated ’im."
"I’m afraid I’ve forgotten," I said with guile.
"Well," began Bindle, settling himself down for a story, "’E took to collectin’ Jews, sort o’ got ’old of all there was in the market, same as them Americans wi’ food.
One day the Jews got a-talkin’ to each other about ’ome, though I never see a Jew yet wot wanted to get ’ome when ’e could stay in someone else’s backyard."
Bindle paused to suck vigorously at his cigar, which showed signs of going out.
"Pharaoh said there wasn’t nothin’ doin’, an’ they couldn’t go.
Though ’ow anyone can want to keep a Jew wot is willin’ to go ’ome does me.
"Then the Jews prayed to Gawd, and ’E made Pharaoh say ’e’d let ’em go.
Then ’E ’ardened Pharaoh’s ’eart an’ started givin’ Pharaoh beans."
"Was it not boils?"
murmured Windover, examining the tip of his cigarette with great intentness.
"Maybe, sir.
Well, first Gawd made Pharaoh agree to let the Jews catch the next bus, then ’E strafed ’im, ’ardening the poor ole chap’s ’eart till ’e didn’t know where ’e was.
Wot I say is it wasn’t sportin’."
"I’m afraid you cannot judge bible history by Queensberry rules," said Windover.
"It’s like lettin’ a bird go and then pullin’ it back by a bit o’ string tied to its leg.
Poor ole Pharaoh couldn’t ’elp ’isself with Gawd a-’ardenin’ of ’is ’eart.
That’s wot I don’t like."
"Your theology is a trifle unconventional, I fear," said Windover.
"Where did you learn about Pharaoh?"
"Yer can’t live wi’ Mrs. B., sir, without pickin’ up a lot about ’eaven an’ ’arps an’ things," was the reply.
"Go on, Mr. Bindle," said Sallie.
"Well, miss," proceeded Bindle.
"There’s somethink about visitin’ sins on children an’ grand-children.
I ’ad that out with ’Earty one night.
’Earty don’t like talkin’ religion wi’ me.
’E says I ain’t got no faith."
"What happened?"
Sallie enquired.
"Well, I asked ’Earty why Gawd should punish a man for wot ’is father did."
"’Because,’ says ’Earty, ’’e ’ad an ’ard ’eart, and wouldn’t believe in Gawd.’

"’Wot ’ud you say, ’Earty,’ I says, ’if the police was to pinch you ’cause your father flitted without ’avin’ paid ’is rent?’  O’ course ’Earty says nothink to that; but mutters that we can’t understand the ways o’ Gawd.
"Them ain’t the ways of Gawd, it’s the things these chaps says about ’Im.
When you’re strong, yer don’t go knockin’ over things wot can’t ’it back.
I knew a bruiser once, an’ ’e was as gentle as a lamb.
I seen a chap want ’im to fight, an’ ’e wouldn’t, ’cause ’e was afraid of ’urtin’."
Bindle paused to relight his cigar, then when it was once more in full blast he continued:

"Then they tells yer to love yer neighbours as yourself.
I’d like ’em to look out of our window when Sandy ’Iggins an’ ’is missus is scrappin’ in their back-yard.
No," he remarked meditatively, "a religion like that’s wasted on Fulham."
That is just Bindle, bringing down the divine to the level of men’s eyes: and raising the earthly to the mountain tops.
It was nearly one o’clock on Sunday morning when the car slid from the Fulham road into the street that leads to Fenton Street.
When we pulled up, Bindle slipped out of Carruthers’ overcoat and got down.
As he said good-night to Sallie we heard him whisper:

"I never ’ad a day like this before, miss."
We continued on our way in silence.
When Sallie dropped me into a passing taxi, Windover remarked:

"I hope I shall be dead when Democracy discovers all it has been denied."
I knew he was referring to Bindle’s remark to Sallie.
