------------------------------------------------------------------------

Transcriber’s Note:

This version of the text cannot represent certain typographical effects. Italics
are delimited with the ‘_’ character as _italic_. Illustrations are indicated by
their captions. Their positions in the tex have been adjusted to fall on a
paragraph break. Minor errors, attributable to the printer, have been corrected.
Please see the transcriber’s note at the end of this text for details regarding
the handling of any textual issues encountered during its preparation.
[Illustration: FRONTISPIECE.] MY WAYWARD PARDNER;
OR,                                MY TRIALS
WITH                     JOSIAH, AMERICA, THE WIDOW BUMP,
AND ETCETERY. BY

JOSIAH ALLEN’S WIFE,                            (MARIETTA HOLLEY,)

AUTHOR OF “MY OPINIONS AND BETSEY BOBBET’S,” “SAMANTHA AT THE
CENTENNIAL,” &C.

--------------

“_Wimmen is my theme, and also Josiah._”

--------------

=Illustrations by True W. Williams.=

--------------

PUBLISHED BY SUBSCRIPTION ONLY. --------------

HARTFORD, CONN.:                       AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY. 1882.
COPYRIGHT BY

MARIETTA HOLLEY. 1880. (All rights reserved.) TO JOSIAH AND AMERICA. WITH THE
HOPE THAT HE AND SHE BOTH WILL PUT THEIR                 BEST FOOT FORWARD AND
WALK OFF NOBLY IN                       THE PATH OF RIGHT THIS BOOK
IS DEDICATED BY                THEIR AFFECTIONATE FRIEND AND WELL WISHER,

_JOSIAH ALLEN’S WIFE_

PREFACE. ----------

I told Josiah that I guessed I would write a book about several things—and
wimmen. Says I, “My mind has been dretful agitated lately about that certain lot
of female wimmen that are sufferin’ more than tongue can tell. Why,” says I,
“when I think of their agony and wrongs, it fairly makes the blood bile in my
veins. I love the female sect,” says I firmly, “I am one of ’em myself.”

Says he (not wantin’ me to say a word about it), “Let ’em write about it
themselves.”

Says I, “Josiah Allen, do you remember when you fell down through the barn and
broke your limb, and most broke your other leg?”

“Yes,” says he, “but what of it?”

Says I, “What if I had stood still in the buttery winder, and hollered at you to
help yourself, and if you was in pain to get out of it?”

“Well,” says he, “let ’em get some of their own folks to do the writin’ then.
They haint none of your folks, nobody won’t expect nothin’ of you.” (He had
reasons for not wantin’ me to tell all I knew about certain things.) But I says
in solemn tones, “Do you remember that time you fell, Josiah Allen, and I, bein’
bound down by rheumatizm, couldn’t do nothin’ but blow the dinner-horn for help,
and Sam Snyder come on the run, and fetched you in, and went after the doctor?”

“Throw that leg in my face, if you want to, but what of it?”

Says I, “Them sufferin’ female wimmen are bound down fur more painfully and
gauling than you wuz. I haint the strength to lift ’em up myself, but I am a
goin’ to toot the horn for help. I am a goin’ to blow through it powerful
breaths of principle and warnin’; and mebby another Samuel, an uncle of mine,
that I honor and admire, may hear it, and start off on the run, and lift the
hull of them poor female wimmen up, out of their pain and humiliatin’ situation.
He can do it if he is a mind to,” says I, “as easy as Sam Snyder lifted you, and
easier, for he sweat powerful, and most dropped you once or twice. And,” says I
firmly, “my mind is made up, Josiah Allen, I shall holler for Samuel.”

“Wall, wall, holler away, for all I care.” He had strong reasons for not wantin’
me to speak a word about certain things, and his tone was very snappish,
snappisher than it had been for over seven weeks. But such trials do great
spirits no harm; no, it only lifts ’em up above their own earthly peace and
happiness, and sets ’em more firmly and stiddily on their loftier spears. I
sithed, but I didn’t contend another word with him, only jest that sithe, and
then I commenced to write my book. WHAT THE BOOK IS ABOUT.
------------------------------------

JOSIAH ALLEN GOES ASTRAY. A curious World and a curious Coincidence—Realms of
Mystery—Josiah Acts queer and Sits on a Volcano—“Wait till    Evenin’”—Widow
Bump and Her Nutcakes are Discussed—How She    Ruined the Tailors—A tedious
Evening and a Night of    Woe—Fearful Words from the sleeping Josiah—“The real
Josiah,    Where was He?”—A mysterious Sign—Firm Resolves—“Pardners Must    Be
Watched”—Duty Tackled—Josiah Stays at Home—Samantha’s    powerful Weapons
victorious, and the Widow Bump Forgotten         19-51

KITTY SMITH AND CALEB COBB. A Visit from One of the Smiths Who is Poor and
Proud—Kitty’s    Secret, which Must Be Kept—Her Would-be Lover, and how She
Encouraged Him—Sketch of Kellup the Hearse-driver and His    Experiences with
Hair dyes—Why He Didn’t Marry—Blamed by the    Census-taker—How Nine Girls Lost
Him—How He Killed Jane    Sofier—The Death-Blow—His Warning to Women—Old Cobb
and His    Arguments—A Sermon by Samantha—The old, old Story
Rehearsed—Kitty’s Kiss—Fun for Kitty                              52-89

JOSIAH GOES INTO BUSINESS. Josiah, Hankering for Speculation and Neighbors,
Repairs the old    House and Rents It to “a beautiful Family” from Zoar—Rumors
that They were Smoked out—Josiah Feels neat, and Loves to    Neighbor—So Do the
Spinkses, Their Cow, and Their Hens—They    Borrow Feather Beds, Pantaloons, and
Pork—Their Twin “Takes to    Him”—He Nurses the Twin, Sleeps with the Boys,
Chases the Cow,    and Takes “solid Comfort”; but “Gets mad” at last, and
Meditates Murder—Summary Process—Adieu to the Spinkses           90-118

MORALIZIN’ AND EPISODIN’. Josiah Longs for more Speculation and Comes Home “as
cross as a    Bear”—An Epoch of History—The new Head-dress and how It Was
Bought—Caleb Cobb’s Opinions thereof, and of extravagant    Members of the
Meetin’-house—Samantha Rejoins, Holding up    Nature Wreathed in Beauty as a
Pattern, and Advocating Charity    toward both the Rich and the Poor—Two Sides
to    Everything—Naming the Baby—Caleb Changes the Subject, and    Starts off to
Borrow the Stun-bolt                              119-151

JOSIAH UNDERTAKES MORE BUSINESS. How old Ben Mandagool Made Money—Josiah Wants
to do likewise,    but Knowing Samantha will Object, Feels cross, Looks mauger,
and at last Says He Wants to take Summer Boarders—Affection    _vs._
Principle—Samantha Yields—Josiah Engages Boarders, and    Figures out the
Profits—A Competency at last!—“Get a Girl”—The    Tip-toe of Expectation—Arrival
of the Dankses—Tremendous    Appetites—Victuals and Profits Disappear—The Secret
out—More    Trouble—A heavy Bill, and how he Flatted the Colt and Squshed    the
Grin’-stun—How They Made Ghosts and Were hard on the Tom    Turkey—Night-walking
and Historicks—Arrival of old Danks—The    Crisis—Josiah’s Wrath—How He Scared
Danks, and how Danks    Scared him—Samantha Speaks of Matrimony and its
Responsibilities, and Consoles all Matrimourners—A Lawsuit and    its Result
152-188

A VISIT FROM MISS RICKERSON. A windy Day—The Simons of the Desert—Good Advice to
Women—Preparing for an Emergency—“Likely Creeters”—Now and    then—Vain
Experiments—The miscarried Letter—“She is Coming    to-day!”—Arrival of Miss
Rickerson, she that Was an Allen—Her    flattering Tongue—How She Scared Caleb
Cobb, Extolled the    Spring Corset, and made Josiah Think he was handsome—Our
four    old Fathers and their chilly Blue Laws—“Praise your Friends    while
they Are Living”—Samantha Holds firm, but Cooks good    Victuals, and Does well
by Alzina Ann                           189-204

CASSANDRA’S TEA PARTY. History of Cassandra and her Misfortune—History of her
bashful    Husband, Nathan Spooner—Some of his Adventures and    Experiences—How
he Went hungry to Please Himself, and Feasted    to Please Others—How he Courted
Cassandra—Scenes at the    Wedding—The Tea-party, and how Alzina Entertained
Nathan—“The    Image of his Pa”—At the Tea-table, and how Nathan Said
Grace—Untimely Remarks—Samantha to the Rescue—After    Supper—Alzina Walks with
Cassandra in the Garden—She Slanders    Josiah and Calls him a “humbly
Creeter”—Samantha Appears on    the Scene—A Tableau—Sarcastic Remarks about
People who Take    Liberties with their Friends—Alzina’s Confession—The Walk
homeward                                                        205-229

THE LORDS OF CREATION. Josiah Is proud and tickled because he Is a Man—His
Opinion of    “Wimmen”—What old Error Would do if They Made the Laws, and
where York State Would Be—Samantha Points out a Monument of    Man’s Economy and
Wisdom with Her new Tow-mop—A    Reminiscence—Under the Meetin’-house Shed—Guilt
Arrayed in    festal Robes to Lure the Unwary
230-240

A EXERTION FOR PLEASURE. Josiah’s new “Idee,” which Samantha Discourages—The
Folly of    Chasing Pleasure—Exertion to the Lake Resolved on—Caleb
Sacrifices his own Pleasure for the Welfare of the Fair    Sect—He Is not Their
Natural Enemy, but Can’t Marry Them    all—Preparations—Early to Bed—Visitors,
and a Conference    Meetin’—“Galluses and Night Caps”—A Wild Night—Dreams—Josiah
Wears T. Jefferson’s Uniform—The Start—Arrival at the Lake—How    Twenty Old
Fools “Sot Sail”—Overboard—Sea-sick and weak as    Cats—On the Sand-
Beach—Demoralized Vittles—Wasps and    Muskeeters—Histing an Umbrell—Josiah
Meets with Two Accidents,    and Retires to Meditate—A Search for Josiah—Josiah
Wears a    Shawl and Looks meachin’—The Return to the Main-land, and Ride
Homeward in the Rain—The Rheumatiz Takes Hold—“Is this    Pleasure, Josiah
Allen?”                                        241-269

A VISIT TO THE CHILDREN. “The Croup Is around”—A Slave to Conscience—Caleb
Enquires about    Kitty’s Health, and Decides that He May Marry Her—Why He Did
not Write to Her, and why He Wore old Clothes—A Funeral at Log    London—A Load
of Company—The Start for Jonesville—Thomas J.    and Maggie—Providence and the
Weather—Arrival at Whitfield’s—A    pretty Sight—Portraits of little Samantha
Joe and Her Pa and    Ma—The Sun and Sunflower—The Kiss of Welcome—A Talk with
Tirzah Ann, Who Says They Are Going off for Rest and    Pleasure—“Miss Skidmore
Is Going, and all genteel People    Go”—Samantha’s Advice, “Better Let Well
Enough Alone,” is    Rejected—Who need a Change of Scene and who do not—The
Stiff-necked Miss Skidmore—Who Leads the Jonesville    Aristocracy?—How Samantha
Prescribed for her, and Was Winked    out—“Burdock Won’t Help Her”—Proud Keturah
Allen—Samantha’s    Ideas of People who Put on Airs and Feel above Her
270-302

TIRZAH ANN TO A WATERIN’ PLACE. How Tirzah Ann, Whitfield, and Samantha Joe,
Went off for Rest,    and how they Came back as poor as 3 Snails—Tirzah’s Story
of    her Experiences and Wrongs at Miss Skidmore’s Tavern—How She    Resolved
at Starting to outdo the Skidmores—How they Rested    and Recreated—Midnight in
the fourth Story of a Waterin’    Place—The young Man who Was Crossed in Love,
and the young    Maiden Who Owned a Melodeon—Wails of Woe—How the Baby Was
Skairt into the Historicks—Bathin’, deep Water, Cramps and    Drowndin’—Pulled
out by the Hair—Too much Mineral Water—How    Whitfield Played Polo (a Game
Josiah Wants to Play) and Was    Hit by a base Ball—How He Danced too much, and
Got    Disabled—Evenin’ Parties, Dancin’ and Flirtin’—The Worst of    All;
Tirzah’s dreadful Confession, Which must be Kept a    Secret; “She Flirted with
a Man!”—About Her Trouble with    Whitfield in consequence, how He Was jealous,
and how a    Separation Was imminent—“Such Doins!”—Piles of Money Spent,    and
Morals Totterin’—Bought Wit is the best                     303-329

MISS BOBBET LETS THE CAT OUT. An old Acquaintance—Sorrows of Her domestic Life,
and her great    Consolation—The Dignity of Marriage—Simon’s horrible Horrors—A
Present for Betsey—A Summer Evening’s Scene—Josiah and the    high-tide Level of
Love—The Stranger in the Kitchen—How He    Looked, and What He Said—Why He
didn’t Set down—He Calls for    some Cider, and Persisting in his Demands, is
Driven from the    House at the Point of Samantha’s Umberel—Tobacco, and why
People Use it—A Visit from Betsey, who Says the Intruder is    Elder Judas Wart,
Who is Sealed to Widder Bump, who has been    Forwarded to Utah by
Express—Betsey Tells about his disabled    Wives, and about the Mormon Meetin’s
in Jonesville—Shocking    Disclosures—“Bobbet Went to ’em and so did Josiah
Allen!”—Fearful Words—Samantha Groans aloud, and Feels    Wicked—The Mormon
Wimmen’s Appeal to Emily (She that was a    Webb) and Samantha—A Woman to be
proud of—Direlection in    Duty—Samantha’s firm Resolve to be up and Doin’—She
Hankers to    Tackle Elder Wart and America, and Gets madder and madder
330-354

A SERENADIN’ EPISODE, ETC. Betsey Bobbet’s new Poem, Entitled “A Wife’s Story,”
and    Published in the _Gimlet_—She Laments her Wedded Life and    (although
proud to Think she Married Simon) “to be a Widder is    her Theme”—“Husbands are
Tryin’,” and Simon’s Loss would be    Betsey’s Gain—The pathetic Story of E.
Wellington Gansey who    Came from the Ohio to Visit his Childhood’s Home—He is
Welcomed by His early Playmates, Has a good Time, and Resolves    to Move back
to Jonesville—Josiah and Others Are so elated    that They Go to Serenade
Him—Samantha, Left alone in the    House, Has exciting Experiences—She Hears
Noises, Gets Skairt,    and Expects to be Burgled and Rapined—She is finally
Appeared    to and Talks with the Ghost—Poor Tamer Mooney and Her horrible
Words—“Bloody Indians, Yells, and Tomyhawks!”—Rousting the
Neighbors—Reappearance of Josiah—What Hit Him—What Hit Old    Bobbet—What Hit
the Editor of the _Augur_—What Hit Old Gansey,    etc.—Eliab leaves His
Childhood’s Home, and Starts for the    Ohio by the first Train
355-396

JUDAS WART AND SUFFERIN’ WOMEN. Josiah has a Stitch, Comes in on a Broom-handle,
and is Made    comfortable—The Elder Wart also Comes in, Seems dreadful
Tickled, and Makes some complimentary Remarks—Josiah Overhears    them, and
Forgets his “Stitch”—Samantha Rescues the Elder,    who, in retaliation, Twits
Josiah about “a certain Widder” to    whom He Had Been partial—Josiah Denies the
Imputation and Gets    luny—His strange Hallucination, and Memories of his
Childhood—Samantha, being again “Approached” by the Elder,    Gets mad and
Threatens him with the Tea-kettle—He Wants to    “Argue,” and Samantha Tackles
Him—What Mormons Worship—Who    they Rob and Murder—What they Covet, and Get,
too—The    Wretchedness of Mormon Wimmen, and especially of Wife No. 1—Ruined
Morals—Beelzebub’s own Timber—A Voice from Old    Babylon and the Turkey—No
Acquaintance with Thalos and Mr.    Plato—The Elder Gets “Sassy,” and Samantha
Declares She Will    Appeal to her Uncle Samuel, who, though a little distracted
and run down by his domestic Troubles, Can and Will Stop    Mormonism—The
Elder’s parting Shot, which Josiah Resents by an    Attack in the Rear—“A
skairter Man never Lived”                 397-469

A CRISIS WITH KELLUP. Kitty Departs, and Kellup Calls to See her 5 Minutes
afterward—He is greatly Depressed—“Wimmen is what’s the    Matter”—He is sorry
for Kitty, and says he will Write to    her—On Reflection he Authorizes Samantha
to tell her he Will    Marry her whether or no, even if She is poor—Remembring
Sofier’s Fate, he “Dassent” do an Errand at Marier’s House—A    Visit from
Cassandra and her young Babe—How Nathan Treated his    Heir—A mysterious
Decree—Thrillin’ News—Kitty Smith Disappears    from the Scene—So Does Miss
Smith the Elder—So Does Wart (the    Elder)—So Does Kellup and the Hearse—A
pastoral    Scene—Samantha, Reclining by the Brook-side, Listens to a Bird    as
he Sings and Swings; Watches the Sky and Golden-rod    Reflected in the Stream;
Meditates on the Old and the New, the    Steadfast and the Changing; and Thinks
how swift the Water is    a Runnin’ toward the Sea
470-490

THE PICTURES                          MR. WILLIAMS HAS MADE. PAGE           1.
FRONTISPIECE                    (FULL PAGE)           2. “THE TEDIOUS EVENING
WANED      (FULL PAGE)     18              AWAY”           3. PORTRAIT OF THE
WIDDER BUMP                     24           4. AN IDEAL FAMILY
(FULL PAGE)     28           5. MEASURED BY THE WIDDER
32           6. JOSIAH DREAMING                                 36           7.
THOSE “AWFUL WORDS”             (FULL PAGE)     40           8. A SOLEMN WARNING
42           9. JOSIAH’S DISAPPOINTMENT                         47          10.
KITTY SMITH                     (FULL PAGE)     54          11. KELLUP
59          12. THE WOMAN QUESTION                              63          13.
THE DESERTED                                    65          14. PAYING HER WAY
67          15. HOW JANE WAS ROPED IN           (FULL PAGE)     69          16.
THE DEATH-BLOW                                  71          17. A JUDGMENT SEAT
74          18. SWINGIN’ OUT                                    83          19.
A COB(B) WITHOUT CORN           (FULL PAGE)     85          20. KITTY’S KISS
87          21. JOSIAH FEELS NEAT                               93          22.
ARRIVAL OF THE SPINKSES                         97          23. YOKED BUT NOT
MATED             (FULL PAGE)    100          24. JOSIAH NEIGHBORS
102          25. BORROWIN’ JOSIAH                               106          26.
SPINKS’ES COW—A NIGHT SCENE     (FULL PAGE)    108          27. OUR HEN-DAIRY
110          28. JOSIAH’S VOW                                   117          29.
DANGER AHEAD                                   118          30. THE NEW HEAD-
DRESS                             121          31. APPLE BLOSSOMS
123          32. HOW IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN                         124          33.
HARD AT IT                                     126          34. NATURE’S OCEAN
BOUDOIR          (FULL PAGE)    129          35. NATURE’S WORK
131          36. BABY PILLER CASE                               135          37.
FEELING CHRISTIAN                              137          38. “BLESSINGS ON
THEM ALL”         (FULL PAGE)    141          39. A HEAVENLY MESSENGER
143          40. THE WREATHED SPEAR                             145          41.
A GUIDING HAND                                 150          42. “WHAT’S THE
MATTER, JOSIAH?”                   154          43. A POETICAL SIMELY
(FULL PAGE)    158          44. JOSIAH’S IDEE
161          45. EARLY BIRDS                                    162          46.
OUR BOARDERS                    (FULL PAGE)    165          47. A SURPRISED COLT
170          48. EXERCISING THE GOBBLER                         172          49.
A HEAVY BILL                    (FULL PAGE)    176          50. “SHUT THAT DOOR”
192          51. ARRIVAL OF MISS RICKERSON                      196          52.
KELLUP’S CONUNDRUM                             202          53. NATHAN SPOONER
206          54. NATHAN SNICKERS                                207          55.
PUDDING AND MILK                               209          56. THE FAMILY
NIGHT-CAP            (FULL PAGE)    211          57. “NATHAN SOT DOWN”
214          58. CASSANDRA’S MISFORTUNE          (FULL PAGE)    217          59.
BAD FOR NATHAN                                 222          60. FACE TO FACE
226          61. A MONUMENT OF MEN’S ECONOMY                    233          62.
ON THE RAGGED EDGE                             236          63. UNDER THE
MEETING-HOUSE SHED    (FULL PAGE)    238          64. ROUTED OUT
246          65. “MURDER WILL OUT”                              247          66.
SAMANTHA’S DREAM                (FULL PAGE)    249          67. FACING TROUBLE
(FULL PAGE)    253          68. BOUND FOR THE ISLAND
255          69. ON THE BEACH                                   257          70.
DISCOURAGED EXCURSIONIST        (FULL PAGE)    260          71. A DESPERATE
SITUATION                          264          72. HOMEWARD BOUND
(FULL PAGE)    267          73. THE END OF THE EXERTION
269          74. MOVING JOSIAH                                  271          75.
DRESSED FOR THE OCCASION                       274          76. A ROADSIDE VISIT
(FULL PAGE)    279          77. A HAPPY HOME
281          78. LITTLE SAMANTHA JOE                            283          79.
JOSIAH STILL                                   286          80. THE ANNUAL
TURNOUT              (FULL PAGE)    289          81. MRS. SKIDMORE
292          82. KETURAH ALLEN                                  295          83.
VIEW OF JONESVILLE              (FULL PAGE)    300          84. “A PITIFUL
SIGHT”               (FULL PAGE)    306          85. KEEPIN’ UP HER END
309          86. MIDNIGHT AT A WATERING-PLACE    (FULL PAGE)    312          87.
WAIL OF WOE                                    314          88. QUAVERS AND
SHAKES                             316          89. DOIN’ THEIR LEVEL BEST
318          90. HOW JOSIAH WOULD PLAY POLO      (FULL PAGE)    320          91.
THE RESCUE                                     323          92. “IT TASTED
AWFULLY”                            324          93. A SAD SCENE
325          94. TIRZAH ANN FLIRTS WITH A MAN    (FULL PAGE)    327          95.
A PRESENT FOR BETSEY                           331          96. FRIENDLY
FEELIN’S                              332          97. MEETING THE ELDER
355          98. A THREATNIN’ ATTITUDE                          341          99.
MISS BOBBET TELLS ABOUT JOSIAH  (FULL PAGE)    344         100. “A RARITY TO
’EM”                              348         101. BOBBET AND JOSIAH TALKIN’
352         102. OLD TOIL’S BRIDE                (FULL PAGE)    357         103.
THE WILD-EYED WOMAN                            363         104. NO ANSWER
367         105. E. WELLINGTON GANSEY                           370         106.
BURGLERS                                       379         107. THE GHOST
380         108. TAMER MOONEY                                   383         109.
THE SERENADING PARTY                           384         110. THE BRUISED
JOSIAH                             387         111. THE SERENADE
(FULL PAGE)    390         112. “MANDANA! MANDANA!”
395         113. A STITCH IN THE BACK            (FULL PAGE)    398         114.
ELDER JUDAS WART                               400         115. RESCUING THE
ELDER                             401         116. HOT WATER
407         117. “LESS ARGUE”                    (FULL PAGE)    409         118.
MOUNTAIN MEADOWS                               417         119. AN ANGEL OF
PEACE                              430         120. MR. AND MRS. PLATO
436         121. THE HINDOO MOTHER                              441         122.
A FALLEN ANGEL                                 443         123. THE OLD MAN
450         124. OUR DISTRACTED UNCLE                           453         125.
THE CALL TO DUTY                (FULL PAGE)    455         126. HELPS FOR THE
HEATHEN                          457         127. JOSIAH ENDS THE ARGUMENT
(FULL PAGE)    464         128. DEPARTURE OF THE ELDER
467         129. TAKIN’ A REEF                                  475         130.
MARIER BURPEY                                  480         131. “DO YOU WANT A
PAIR OF BOOTS?”                 484         132. THRILLING NEWS
(FULL PAGE)    486

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: “THE TEDIOUS EVENING WANED AWAY.”]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration]

JOSIAH ALLEN GETS ASTRAY. I have said, and said it calmly, that this is the
curiousest world I ever see in my life. And I shan’t take it back. I hain’t one
to whiffle round and dispute myself. I made the statement cool and firm, and
shall stand by it. And truly if I never had said or thought anything of the
kind, what I see with my own eyes last Friday night, and heard with my own ear
before mornin’ dawned, would have convinced me that I was in the right on’t.
It’s happenin’ on a Friday, too, was strange as anything could be strange. It
was on Friday that Mr. Columbus discovered the New World, and it was on a Friday
(though some time after) that I discovered new regions in my pardner’s mind.
Realms of mystery, full of strange inhabitents. That Christopher and me should
both make such startlen and momentious discoveries on the same day of the week
is a coincidence curious enough to scare anybody most to death. Yes, this world
is a curious place, very, and holler, holler as a drum. Lots of times the ground
seems to lay smooth and serene under your rockin’ chair, when all the time a
earthquake may be on the very p’int of busten’ it open and swollerin’ you
up—chair and all. And your Josiah may be a-settin’ right on top of a volcano,
unbeknown to you. But I am wanderin’ off into fields of poesy, and to resoom and
proceed. It was along the latter part of winter, pretty nigh spring, when my
companion Josiah seemed to kinder get into the habit of going to Jonesville
evenin’s. When I would beset him to go and get necessaries, groceries, and
etcetery, he would say:

“Wall, I guess I’ll wait till evenin’, and then I’ll hitch up and go.”

He’d done it a number of times before I noticed it in particular, bein’ took up
alterin’ over my brown alpacka, and bein’ short on’t for pieces and strained in
my mind whether I would get out new backs without piecin’ ’em acrost the
shoulder-blades. I don’t get much time to sew, bein’ held back by housework and
rheumatiz, and the job had hung on, and wore on me powerfully, body and mind.
Wall, every day or two he would make that curious remark, without my noticin’ of
it (as it were):

“Wait till evenin’, and I’ll hitch up and go.”

And I wouldn’t say nothin’’, and he’d go, and wouldn’t get back till nine
o’clock or after. Wall, as time went on, and my mind grew easier about my dress
(I concluded to take the overskirt and make new backs and sleeves, and I got it
cut foamin’, could have cut it profuse and lavish, if it had been my way), and
my mind bein’ onstrained, and noticin’ things more, I thought it looked sort o’
peculier that Josiah should be so uncommon willin’ to go to the store evenin’s
for necessaries and things, when he had always been such a case to stay to home
nights; couldn’t get him out for the Doctor hardly. Collery morbeus couldn’t
hardly start him, nor billerous colic. It was on that Friday night after Josiah
had started, that I, havin’ finished my dress, sot there a knittin’, and my mind
bein’ sot free, it got to thinkin’ over things. Thinkin’ how I told him that
mornin’ that the tea was a-runnin’ out, and I should have to have some that day,
and he says:

“Wall, after supper I’ll hitch up and go.”

And I says to him sort o’ mechanically (for my mind was almost completely full
of alpacka and waist patterns—I had concluded late the night before to take the
overskirt):

“What has come over you, Josiah Allen? I couldn’t never use to get you out
nights at all.”

He didn’t explain, nor nothin’, but says agin, in that same sort of a curious
way, but firm:

“You make the tea last through the day, Samantha, and to-night I’ll hitch up and
go.”

And then he beset me to have a chicken pie for dinner, and I, bein’ in such a
hurry with my sewin’, didn’t feel like makin’ the effort, and he told me I
_must_ make it, for he had had a revelation that I should. Says I, “a revelation
from who?”

And he says, “From the Lord.”

And I says, “I guess not.”

But he stuck to it that he had. And I finally told him, “that if it was from the
Lord he would probable get it, and if it wuzn’t, if it wuz as I thought, a
revelation from his stomach and appetite, he most probable wouldn’t get it.” And
I kep’ on with my sewin’. I laid out to get a good, wholesome dinner, and did.
But I couldn’t fuss to make that pie, in my hurry. His revelation didn’t amount
to much. But it was curious his talkin’ so—awful curious. I got to thinkin’ it
all over agin as I sot there a-knittin’, and I felt strange. But little, little
did I think what was goin’ on under my rockin’-chair, unbeknown to me. About
half past 7 Josiah Allen got home. I asked him what made him come so soon, and
he said sunthin’, as he took off his overcoat, about there not bein’ no meetin’
that night, and sunthin’ about the Elder bein’ most sick. And I s’posed he meant
conference meetin’, and I s’posed he meant Elder Bamber. But oh! if I had only
known who that Elder was, and what them meetin’s was, if I had only known the
slippery height and hollerness of the volcano Josiah Allen was a-sittin’ upon,
unbeknown to me! But I didn’t know nothin’ about it, and so I sot there, calm
and serene in my frame, for my mind bein’ onharnessed, as I may say, speakin’ in
a poeticule way, from the cares it had been a-carryin’, I felt first rate. And
so I sot there a-knittin’, and Josiah sot by the stove seemin’ly a-meditatin’. I
thought likely as not, he was a-thinkin’ on religious subjects, and I wouldn’t
have interupted him for the world. But pretty soon he spoke out sort ’o
dreamily, and says he:

“How old should you take the Widder Bump to be, Samantha?”

“Oh, about my age, or a little older, probable,” says I. “What makes you ask?”

“Oh, nothin’,” says he, and he sort o’ went to whistlin’, and I went on with my
knittin’. But anon, or mebby a little before anon, he spoke out agin, and says
he:

“The Widder Bump is good lookin’ for a widder, hain’t she? And a crackin’ good
cook. Sometimes,” says he in a pensive way, “sometimes I have almost thought she
went ahead of you on nutcakes.”

Her nutcakes was pretty fair ones, and midelin’ good shaped, and I wuzn’t goin’
to deny it, and so I says:

“What of it, Josiah? What if she duz?”

There hain’t a envious hair in my head (nor many gray ones for a woman of my
age, though I say it that shouldn’t). I hain’t the woman to run down another
woman’s nutcakes. My principles are like brass, as has been often remarked. If a
woman can make lighter nutcakes than I can (which, give me good flour and plenty
of sour cream, and eggs, and other ingregiencies, I shall never believe they
can)—why, if they can, runnin’ down their nutcakes don’t make mine any higher
up. There is where folks make a mistake—they think that runnin’ other folks down
lifts them higher up; but it don’t, not a inch. [Illustration: THE WIDDER BUMP.]
So I kep’ on knittin’, cool as the heel of the sock I was knittin’ on. Pretty
soon Josiah broke out agin:

“The Widder Bump hain’t got no relations, has she, Samantha, that would be a
kinder hangin’ on, and livin’ on her, if she should take it into her head to
marry agin?”

“I guess not,” says I. “But what makes you ask, Josiah?”

“Oh, nothin’, nothin’ in the world. I hadn’t no reason in askin’ it, not a
single reason. I said it, Samantha,” says he, speakin’ in a sort of a excited,
foolish way, “I said it jest to make talk.”

And agin he went to whistlin’, strange and curious whistles as I ever heard, and
haulin’ a shingle out of the wood-box, he went to whittlin’ of it into as
strange shapes as I ever see in my life. I looked at him pretty keen over my
specks, for I thought things was goin’ on kinder curious. But I only says in a
sort of a dry tone:

“I am glad you can think of sunthin’ to say, Josiah, if it hain’t nothin’ but
widder. Howsumever,” says I, speakin’ in a encouragin’ tone, seein’ how dretful
meachin’ he looked, and thinkin mebby I had been too hard on him, “Widder is
better than no subject at all, Josiah, though I don’t call it a soarin’ one. But
I can’t see,” says I, lookin’ at him uncommon keen over my specks, “I can’t see
why you foller it up so awful close to-night. I can’t see why the Widder Bump is
a-runnin’ through your mind to-night, Josiah Allen.”

“Oh! she hain’t! she hain’t!” says he, speakin’ up quick, but with that dretful
meachin’ and sheepish look to him. “I am a talkin’ about her, Samantha, jest to
pass away time, jest to make myself agreeable to you.”

“Wall,” says I, in a dryer tone than I had hitherto used, “don’t exert yourself
too hard, Josiah, to make yourself agreeable. You may strain your mind beyond
its strength. I can stand it if you don’t say nothin’ more about the Widder
Bump. And time,” says I, “I guess time will pass away quick enough without your
takin’ such pains to hurry it along.”

And then I launched out nobly on that solemn theme. About time, the greatest of
gifts; how it come to us God-given; how we ort to use it; how we held our arms
out blindly, and could feel the priceless treasure laid in ’em, close to our
hearts, unbeknown to us; and how all beyond ’em was like reachin’ em out into
the darkness, into a awful lonesomeness and emptiness; how the hour of what we
called time was the only thing on God’s earth that we could grip holt of; how it
was every mite of a standin place we could lift the ladder on for our hopes and
our yearnin’s, our immortal dreams to mount heavenward; how this place, the
Present, was all the spot we could stand on, to reach out our arms toward God,
and eternal safety, and no knowin’ how soon that would sink under us, drop down
under our feet, and let us down into the realm of Shadows, the Mysterious, the
Beyond. “And still,” says I, “how recklessly this priceless treasure is held by
some; how folks talk about its bein’ too long, and try to get ways to make it go
quicker, and some,” says I, dreamily, “some try to make it pass off quicker by
talkin’ about widders.”

[Illustration: AN IDEAL FAMILY.] I don’t think I had been more eloquent in over
five weeks, than I was in talkin’ upon that theme. I was very eloquent and
lengthy, probable from ¼ to ½ an hour. I talked beautiful on it. A minister
would have said so if he had heard me, and he would have been likely to thought
highly of it, and my gestures, for the waves that I waved outwards with my right
hand was impressive, and very graceful. I held the sock in my right hand, as I
waved it out; it was a good color, and it floated out some like a banner. I felt
well, and acted well, and I knew it. And I thought at the time that Josiah knew
it, and was proud of me, and felt more affectionate to me than his common run of
feelin’s towards me wuz, for most the minute I got through episodin’, he broke
out, and says he:

“Don’t you think you are a workin’ too hard, Samantha? Don’t you think it would
be easier for you if you had some woman here a livin’ to help you? And,” says
he, dreamily, “she might be a fryin’ the nutcakes while you was a brilin’ the
beef-steak, and cookin’ other provisions.”

I was exceedingly affected by his tender feelin’s towards me, (as I supposed,)
and says I, in affectionate axents:

“No, I can get along, Josiah.”

But oh! if I had known! If I had known what thoughts was a runnin’ through his
mind, how different my axent would have been. My axent would have been so cold
it would have froze him stiffer’n a mushrat, jest one axent would, it would have
had that deadly icyness to it. Blind bein’ that I was, a speakin’ tender and
soft to him, and knittin’ on his heel, (a double stitch, too, to make it
firmer,) and he a settin’ of his own accord up on top of that volcano that was
ready to bust right out, and burn up all my happiness, and swaller down and
engulf my Josiah. What feelin’s I felt as I thought it all over afterwards.
Wall, I sot there a knittin’ on his heel, and occasionally makin’ eloquent and
flowery speeches, and he, from time to time, a speakin out sudden and sort o’
promiscous, a praisin’ up the Widder Bump, and sort o’ mixin’ her up with
religion, and seals, and revelations, and things, and anon, when I would take
him to do about it, a whistlin’, and whittlin’ shingles into curious and foolish
shapes, curiouser than I ever remembered to see him whittle, and whistlin’ more
sort o’ vacant and excentrick whistles than I ever remembered hearin’ him
whistle—dretful loud whistles, some of ’em, and then dwindlin’ down sudden and
unexpected into low and dwindlin’ ones. And I a wonderin’ at it, and thinkin’
things was a goin’ on strange and curious. And then anon, or about that time, or
anyway, as soon as I would have time to meditate on men’s curious and foolish
demeanors at times—why I would give up that it was one of their ways, and he
would get over it, knowin’ that they mostly did get over ’em. And so the long,
tejus evenin’ waned away. And Josiah locked the doors, and wound up the clock,
and greased his boots, and went to bed. But oh! little did I know all the while
he was a windin’ and a greasin’, and I a knittin’, and the carpet seemed to lay
smooth and straight under us, all the time a earthquake was a rumblin’, and, to
use a poetical and figurative expression, a snortin’ down under us, unbeknown to
me. Wall, that night my pardner, Josiah Allen, at two different times, once
about midnight, and once about the time the roosters crowed—at two separate
times, which I am ready to testify and make oath to, he spoke right out in his
sleep, and says:

“Widder Bump!”

And that is the livin’ truth, and I have always been called truthful, and don’t
expect to take up lyin’ now, at my age. How many more times he said it, while I
was a sleepin’ peacefully by his side, I can’t say. But them two times I heard
and counted, and my feelin’s as I lay there and heard them awful words can’t
never be told nor sung; no, a tune can’t be made curious enough to sing ’em in.
Then I gin up, fully gin up, that sunthin’ was wrong. That a great mystery was
hangin’ over my Josiah and the widder, or to one of ’em, or to somebody, or to
sunthin’. Oh the feelin’s that I felt, as I lay there and heard them words. I
wuzn’t jealous that I will contend for; but what words them was for a
affectionate, lovin’ pardner to hear from the lips of a sleepin’ Josiah. “Widder
Bump!”

I was not jealous. I would scorn to be. There wuzn’t a jealous hair in my
foretop, and I knew it, or my back hair. And I knew I was better lookin’ than
the widder, though she was wholesome lookin’. [Illustration: MEASURED BY THE
WIDDER.] She was the widder of Sampson Bump; he died with collery morbeus, and
she moved to Jonesville and set up a tailoress shop, and had been called likely.
Though the wimmen of Jonesville had gi’n in that their husbands never had so
many clothes made in the same length of time, and a good many of the men had got
scolded considerable by their wives for runnin’ through with their property, and
goin’ so deep into their store-clothes. But the men had all gi’n in that ready-
made clothes ripped so it was a perfect moth to buy ’em, and it was fur cheaper
to hire ’em made by hand. And Josiah had started up about the middle of winter,
and wanted to have her measure him for a vest, and get a new overcoat made.
Josiah Allen didn’t need no vest, and I put my foot right down on it. But I had
her come to the house and make the overcoat, and while she was there I run a
splinter under my finger-nail, and was disabled, and I kep’ her a week to do
housework. As I say, she had always been called likely, though she seemed to be
sort o’ shaky and tottlin’ in her religion. She had been most everything sense
she come to Jonesville, not quite 2 years. She jined the Methodists first, then
the ’Piscopals, then the Universalers, and then the Camelites. And I s’posed at
this present time she was a Camel. I had hearn’ talk that she was a leanin’
towards the Mormons, but I had always made a practice of disputin’ of it,
knowin’ how hard it was for good lookin’ wimmen to get along without bein’
slandered by other wimmen. I always dispised such littleness, and so I had come
out openly and stood up for her, and called her a Camel. But I learnt a lesson
in this very affair. I learnt to be more mejum than I had been, and I thought I
knew every crook and turn in mejumness, I had always been such a master hand for
it. But in dispisin’ littleness and jealousy in other wimmen, and tryin’ to rise
above it, I had riz too fur. _She wuzn’t a Camel!_ And while the other wimmen
had been spiteful and envious, I had been a lyin’—though entirely unbeknown to
me, and I don’t s’pose I shall ever be hurt for it. As I have said, and proved,
I wuzn’t jealous, but oh, what groans I groaned, as I heard for the second time
them fearful words from the lips of my pardner—“Widder Bump!”

It was awful dark in the room, perfectly dark, but darker fur in the inside of
my mind, and gloomier. How I did groan, and turn over agin and groan. And then
I’d try to look on the bright side of things, right there in the dark. Thinkses
I, I know I am better lookin’ than she is, and would be called so by good
judges. To be sure, her heft was in her favor; her heft was a little less than
mine, mebby 100 pounds or so, and she could most probable get around spryer, and
act more frisky. But thinkses I, when a man loves a woman devotedly, when he
carrys her in his heart, what is a few pounds more or less? Thinkses I, a
hundred pounds hain’t more than a ounce to him under the circumstances; he don’t
sense it at all. So I’d try my best to look on the bright side, (right there in
the dark,) and I’d say to myself, my Josiah’s affections are sound, they are
wrapped completely round me. And then I’d look on the dark side, and think how I
had hearn that men’s affections was loose and stretchy, some like the injy
rubber ribbins you get to put round papers. How it will set tight round one, and
hold it seemin’ly so close that there don’t seem to be room for another single
one, and then how easy it will stretch out and hold tight round another one—and
another one—and et cetery—and et cetery. Seemin’ to set jest as easy round the
last ones, and hold ’em jest as tight and comfortable as the first one. And then
I’d groan, and turn over agin and groan. And once my groan (it was a louder one
than my common run of groans, and deeper,) it waked Josiah Allen right up out of
a sound sleep, and he was skairt, and riz right up in the end of the bed, and
says he, in tones tremblin’ with emotion and excitement:

“What is the matter, Samantha?”

And I never let on what ailed me, but told him in tones that I tried to make
calm and even, (and as lofty as I could when I knew I was talkin in a parable
way) that it was a pain that was a goarin’ of me. I didn’t lie. I wuz in pain,
but I didn’t feel obleeged to explain the parable to him, and tell him where the
pain wuz. I didn’t tell him it was in my heart. And he thought it was in my
shoulder-blades; he thought it was the rheumatiz. And he wanted to know, in
affectionate tones, “if he shouldn’t rub my back, or if he shouldn’t get me the
spirits of turpentine, or the camfire?”

But I told him no. I knew that turpentine was a master hand to strike in, but it
couldn’t never go down deep enough to strike at the feelin’s I felt—and camfire
never was made strong enough to ease off a wounded spirit, or bathe it down.
[Illustration: JOSIAH DREAMING.] But I held firm, and didn’t say nothin’. And
Josiah lay down agin, and in ½ a minute’s time was fast asleep, and a dreamin’.
What was his dream? Into what land was his mind a journeyin’? And who was his
companion? _Was it Widder Bump?_ At that fearful thought it seemed as if I
should expier. I dassent groan for fear of roustin’ up my pardner, and so I had
to stand it with sithin’. Sithes wouldn’t wake him up. And oh! what fearful and
tremenjous sithes I sithed for the next several moments. I hain’t afraid to bet
that the best judge of sithes that ever lived would have said that he never
heard any that went ahead of these, nor see deeper ones, or more melancholy. Why
my feelin’s was dreadful, and can’t be described upon. There it was, dark as
pitch. It was jest before daylight, when it is the darkest time in the hull
night. And there my companion wuz. Where wuz he? I couldn’t tell, nor nobody.
His body lay there by my side. But the real Josiah, where wuz he? And who was
with him where he wuz? Oh! what feelin’s I felt! what sithes I sithed! What
blind creeters we are, anyway. Our affections reach out like a wild grape-vine,
layin’ hold of sunthin’, or somebody, a twistin’ and a clingin’, till death on-
clinches of ’em, jest as foolish, jest as blindly. Human love is strong, but
blinder than a mole. How is that grape-vine to know what it is a clingin’ to?
Blind instinct moves it to lay holt of sunthin’, and hang on till it is tore
away, or sot fire to, or wrenched off by some power outside of itself, and
killed, and destroyed. But how can it tell whether it is clingin’ round a live
oak or a bean-pole? Round sunthin’ that is sound to the core, or holler as a
pipes-tail? Round sunthin’ that will draw it along the ground, draggin’ it
through mud and mire into a perfect swamp hole and bog, soilin’ its bright
leaves, dwarfin’ its free growth, poisenin’ it with dark and evil shadows? Or
whether it will draw it up towards the clear heavens and the sunlight, and hold
it up there by its strength—a happy vine, growin’ fresh and bright, sendin’ out
blessed tendrils touchin’ nothin’ less pure than God’s own sweet atmosphire. Now
I worshipped that man, Josiah Allen. And I thought he loved the very ground I
walked on as devotedly as I did hisen. I thought I knew every crook and turn in
that man’s mind. And now, after livin’ together over 20 years, that man had done
what he had done; talked the hull evenin’ long about a certain widder, and even
in his sleep had uttered them fearful and agonizin’ words—“Widder Bump!”

[Illustration: THOSE “AWFUL WORDS.”]

And there I was, a strong woman in every way—strong in intellect and principles,
strong in my love for him, strong in my heft. And here I was, powerless as a
rag-babe. No more strength nor knowledge in the matter than the rag-babe would
have. No more power in my hand to lift up the veil of mystery that was hangin’
round my Josiah than there would be in the babe’s, not a mite. Josiah’s mind
wasn’t the strongest mind in the world—I had always known that, and had made a
practice of remindin’ him of it frequent, when I see it would be for his good.
But now, now there wuzn’t a intellect powerful enough on the face of the earth
to foller it up and overthrow it. Out of the reach of friend or foe; beyond
perswasion, ridicule, reasonin’, or entreaty; out of the reach of me, his
Samantha. He had gone off a travelin’ without no change of clothin’, or railroad
tickets. Settin’ off on a journey, unshackled by pardners, bundles, and
umberells. A soarin’ free and calm through that wonderful land. The ring on my
finger held him before earthly courts and constables, but there he was a
wanderin’, a free Josiah. Was I a wanderin’ with him? Did his soul reach out to
me from that realm—hold to me so close as to draw my spirit to his adown them
shadowy streets, into them mysterious homes, over whose silent threshold no
curious foot may pass? Was his lawful pardner with him there, where she should
be? Was his thought loyal to me, where there was no law, no influence, or
constraint to make him constant—or was he a cuttin’ up and a actin’, flirtin’ in
spirit with the phantom thought of a Widder Bump? Here I would sithe powerful,
and turn over agin, and sithe. And so the tejus night passed away. But one great
determination I made there in them fearful moments of darkness and mystery, one
powerful resolve I made, and determined to keep: I would hold firm. And never
let my pardner know I was a mistrustin’ anything. But every minute of the time,
day and night, I would keep the eye of my spectacles open, and try to find out
what was a goin’ on. But little, little did I think what it was that was a goin’
on. Little did I realize the size and heft of the earthquake that was a rumblin’
and a roarin’ under that feather-bed unbeknown to me. But more of this hereafter
and anon. [Illustration: A Solemn Warning]

The next mornin’ sunthin’ happened to me that, comin’ as it did jest at this
curious and tryin’ time, was enough to scare anybody most to death. I had a
sign; a mysterious warnin’. I happened to take up the last _World_ while my
dish-water was a heatin’, and the very first words the eye of my spectacles fell
on—right there in broad daylight—entirely unexpected to me, I read these awful
words:

A meetin’-house steeple had fell flat down the day before—fell right down into a
man’s door-yard, sudden and unexpected, broke a hen-coop and five lengths of
fence, and skairt ’em most to death. They thought, them folks did, that that
steeple stood firm and sound. They never mistrusted it was a tottlin’. And it
had stood straight and firm for year after year, probable for over 20 years. But
there come along a gust of wind too strong for it, and over it went right into
their door-yard; its lofty head was bowed into the dust, the hen-coop and fence
was squshed down forever, and they was skairt. I don’t believe too much in signs
and wonderments, yet I don’t s’pose a man or a woman lives who hain’t got a
little streak of superstition and curiousness in ’em. I s’pose livin’ as we do
with another world that we don’t know nothin’ about pressin’ so close about us
on every side, livin’ in such curious circumstances makes us feel sort o’
curious. Some as Miss Arden felt, the one that Mr. Tennyson wrote about, she
that was Ann Lee. When her husband Enock got lost she wouldn’t gin up that he
was dead, and marry to another man, till she opened the Bible and looked for a
sign. I have heard Thomas J. read it so much that Ann seems near to me, almost
like one of the Smiths. But though Ann did find a sign, and was mistaken in it,
or didn’t give it the right meanin’, I was determined to read mine right. I felt
a feelin’ in my bones that them words was meant to me for a warnin; was gin to
me as a sign to meditate on. If a meetin’ house steeple could tottle, my
Josiah’s morals was liable to tottle; if that steeple fell right down flat into
a man’s door-yard, breakin’ down and squshin’ what it had broke down and
squshed, my Josiah was liable to fall flat down in a moral way, and sqush down
all my earthly comfort and happiness; and I felt a feelin’ that if I would save
him I must be up and a doin’. Now if them folks had mistrusted that that steeple
was gettin’ shaky, they could have tied it up, mebby, and kep’ it straight. And
I was determined that if tyin’ up, or anything of that sort, would keep my
Josiah up, he should be tied. I am speakin’ poetically, and would wish to be so
understood. Ropes was not in my mind, neither tow strings. And then as I come to
think things over, and look at the subject on every side, as my way is, I felt a
feelin’ that I hadn’t done as I ort. My mind had been on a perfect strain for 2
weeks on that alpacka dress, and I hadn’t kep’ watch of my pardner as pardners
ort to be watched over. Men are considerable likely critters, but they are sort
o’ frisky in their minds, onstiddy, waverin’ kinder. They need a stiddy bit, and
a firm martingill, to drive ’em along straight in the married life, and keep
their minds and affections stabled and firm sot onto their lawful pardners. I
have said that there wasn’t a jealous hair in my head, not a hair. But filosify
and deep reasonin’ has learnt me severe and deep lessons. Even after the fearful
night I had passed, the awful words I had listened to from the lips of a
sleepin’ Josiah, still filosify whispered to me that my pardner was as good as
the common run of men, and I, in strainin’ my mind on store-clothes, had
neglected things of far more importance; I had neglected lookin’ after my
companion as men ort to be looked after. The cat, to use a poetical and
figurative expression, had been away, and the mouse had gone to playin’. Or, to
bring poesy down to prose, and to common comprehension, the cat had been fixin’
over a brown alpacka dress, and the mouse had got to follerin’ up a Widder Bump
in his mind. I believe when the man goes to cuttin’ up and actin’, if the female
pardner, upheld by principle, would take a microscope and look over her past,
she would more’n as likely as not come bunt up against some fault of her own,
some neglect, some carelessness, some things she had done that she ortn’t to
done, or some things she hadn’t done that she ort. She could trace back their
cuttin’s up and actin’s to some little unguarded moments, when through hurry, or
carelessness, or neglect, she had let the lines and martingills of tenderness
and watchfulness drop out of her hand, and had let her pardner go a caperin’ off
with nothin’ but a halter on, a prancin’ up and down society like a 3-year old
colt that hadn’t had a bittin’ rig on. Pardners have got to be humored. They
have got to be made comfortable and happy in their own homes; their companions
has got to make themselves attractive to ’em, or they won’t be attracted.
Viniger won’t draw flies worth a cent. And pardners _have got_ to be _watched_;
for this is the law and the profit. They have got to be reined up to the post of
duty, and hitched there. They are naturally balky, and love to shy off side-
ways, and there haint no use denyin’ of it. I tell you, I had deep thoughts that
day as I went round the house a doin’ up my work; awful deep ones, and a sight
of ’em, probable as many as 2 dozen a minute right along through the day; some
solemn and affectin’ ones, about as solemn as they make, and some more hopeful
like, and chirk. I tell you, my mind got fairly tuckered out by the middle of
the afternoon. But with Samantha, regret, repentance, and reformation foller
right straight on after each other, jest like 3 horses hitched in front of each
other drawin’ a heavy load. I see there was a duty in front of me to tackle; I
see that I must not let Josiah Allen go off to Jonesville another night without
his pardner. I must leave cares and store-clothes in the back-ground, and come
out nobly, and make my home and myself agreeable to my pardner, and keep a keen
and vigilant eye onto his proceedin’s and goin’s on. So that evenin’ along
towards night, when he spoke out in that same sort o’ strange and curious way
about Jonesville, and that “after supper he guessed he’d hitch up and go.”

Then it was that I spoke up mild and firm as my soap-stun, and said, “I guessed
I’d go, too.” He looked brow-beat and stunted by my remark, and says he: “I am
most afraid to have you go out in such muggy weather, Samantha. I don’t believe
you realize how muggy it is.”

Says I, in a brave, noble tone: “It hain’t no muggier for me than it is for you,
Josiah Allen, and if you go, I go, too.”

“Wall,” says he, with that same dumb-foundered and stunted mean, “the old mare
hadn’t ort to go out agin to-night; she lost a shoe off last week. I don’t
believe we had better try to go.”

Says I coolly: “Do jest as you are a mind to, but if you must go, it is my duty
to stand by you and go, too; if my pardner has got a hard job in front of him to
tackle, it is my duty to tackle it, too.”

[Illustration: JOSIAH’S DISAPPOINTMENT.] “Wall,” says he, “I guess I’ll go out
to the barn and onharness. The old mare hadn’t ort to go out with her off shoe
in such a condition.”

But as he drawed on his overhauls, I heard him mutter sunthin’ to himself about
“its bein’ the last night the Elder would be there till fall.” But I overheard
him, and says I:

“You know, Josiah Allen, that Elder Bamber has gin up goin’ home; his mother’s
fits is broke up, and he hain’t a goin’. And there’l be meetin’s right along
every night jest as there has been.”

They’ve been holdin’ protracted meetin’s to Jonesville for quite a spell, and I
s’posed them was the meetin’s that Josiah meant. Ah! little, little did I know
what Elder he meant, or what meetin’s. But he knew me too well to tell me. He
knew well the soundness and heft of my principles. He hadn’t lived with ’em
above 20 years without findin’ ’em out. But more of this hereafter and anon.
When Josiah come into the house agin, and sot down, he had that same sort o’
cross, brow-beat look to him. And he spoke out sort o’ surly like: “Hain’t it
about supper-time, Samantha? And if you’ve got over bein’ in such a dreadful
hurry with that dress, mebby you’ll have time to get a little sunthin’ better to
eat. I declare for’t,” says he in a pitiful tone, “you have most starved me out
for a week or two. And you hain’t seemed to have had time to say a word to me,
nor nothin’. Your mind hain’t seemed to be on me a mite. And,” says he, with a
still more depressted and melancholy look, “a cream-biscuit is sunthin’ I hain’t
seen for weeks. Nothin’ but bread! bread!”

Oh! how my conscience smited me as I heard them words—it smited and smarted like
a burn. Yet at the same time his words kind o’ chirked me up, they made me think
what a powerful arrow I had in my hands to shoot down my sorrow with. They made
me feel that it wuzn’t too late to save my pardner, and that was a sweet thought
to me. Yes, with a thankful and grateful heart, I grasped holt of that weepon
that had defended me so many times before on hard battlefields of principle. I
held that weepon firm and upright as a spear, and says I:

“Josiah, you shall have as good a supper as hands can get.” Says I, “Besides the
common run of vittles we jenerally have for supper, cake and tarts and such
stuff, what do you say, Josiah Allen, to havin’ a briled chicken, and toast, and
mashed-up potatoes, and cream biscuit, and peaches?”

His mean changed in a minute. I never see a mean in my hull life look more
radient than hisen did as I spoke them words. And my breast heaved with such
happy and grateful emotion that it most bust off 2 buttens in front (them
buttens wuzn’t what they was recommended to be; there was sunthin’ wrong about
’em in the shanks). Though the mournful and mysterious episode and Widder Bump
was remembered, yet I felt a feelin’ that I should win my pardner back—I should
save his sole alive. But yet I had solemn feelin’s, I can tell you, all the
while I was a mixin’ up them cream biscuit, and brilein’ that chicken, and
makin’ that toast, and mashin’ up them potatoes, and puttin’ plenty of cream and
butter into ’em. I well knew I was a handlin’ my most powerful weepons. I knew
if them failed, I was ondone. I had meditated so many times and so deep onto
this subject, that I knew every crook and turn in it. How a man’s conscience,
his moral faculties, and his affections was connected by mighty and resistless
cords to his appetite. I knew well that when his morals was tottlin’, when he
was wild, balky, fractious, and oneasy, good vittles was the panaky that
soothes. And when the mighty waves of temptation was tostin’ him to and fro—when
scoldin’s seemed futile, and curtain lectures seemed vain, extra good vittles
was the anchor that wimmin could drop down into them seethin’ waters, knowin’
that if that didn’t holt, she could, in the words of the Sammist, “give up the
ship.”

Yes, as Josiah Allen see me a gettin’ that supper he grew calm, peaceful, his
demeaner towards me grew sweet and lovin’, his affections seemed to be stabled
and firm sot onto me. I see, and I can tell you I was a proud and happy woman as
I see it, that the anchor I had throwed overboard was a grapplin’ the rock.
Agin, as in days past and gone, in different crysises of my life, philosophy,
principle, and Samantha conquered. The supper was a success. The spring chicken
was plump and tender, but not more tender than Josiah’s demeanor to me as he
partook of that refreshment. The cream biscuit was light and warm; so was my
heart as I see my happy pardner eat the 7th one. The peaches was delicious and
sweet; so was my Josiah’s smile onto me, as I dipped out the 4th sass plate full
and handed it to him. And after supper he sot there by my side calm and
peaceful, and the Widder Bump and all other earthly cares and agonys seemed to
be forgot. But it wuzn’t till long afterwards, it wuzn’t till the 4th day of the
next September, though I mistrusted, I mistrusted strong before, but it wuzn’t
till then, that I knew for certain what a glorious and momentious victory I had
won that day. What great and awful responsibilities was a devolvin’ onto them
cream biscuit, and hangin’ round that chicken and toast and potatoes. I felt
solemn feelin’s a gettin’ that supper, and curious ones a eatin’ of it. But oh,
what feelin’s should I have felt if I had known what a earthquake was a rumblin’
and a roarin’ under that table unbeknown to me. Oh, what blind creeters the fur
seein’est of us are, how powerless are the most magnifyest spectacles to see the
brinks that pardners are a hangin’ over unbeknown to us. But of this, more
hereafter and anon. [Illustration]

KITTY SMITH AND CALEB COBB. We have got a dretful pretty girl a-stayin’ with us
now, one of the relation on my side, one of the Smiths. When we heard she was a
comin’, Josiah kinder hung back from the idee at first. But as I see him a
hangin’ back, I calmly, and with dignity, took the Widder Doodle, one of the
relations on his side, and mildly yet firmly threw her in his face. It hit him
jest right, the idee did, and I hain’t heard a word sense of murmurin’s or
complainin’s about the Smiths. [Illustration: KITTY SMITH.] I enjoy her bein’
here the best that ever was. We have took lots of comfort sense she come. Not
that happiness and security has caused me to shut that open eye of my spectacle.
No! that is still on the watch, vigilent and keen, and if there is anything a
goin’ on, I feel that it cannot long be hid from that eye. But everything has
seemed calm and peaceful, Josiah is affectionate and almost tender in his mean
to me. And I learn from the neighbers that the Widder Bump has gone off on a
visit to her folkses. But still that eye of my speck is sleepless. Not once has
it closed itself in slumber, and still I _hold firm_. Kitty Smith is a pretty
girl, as pretty a one as I ever see. The Smiths, as I have said to Josiah a
number of times, was always pretty fair lookin’. He thinks so too, only when he
is fractious. She looks a good deal as I did when I was her age; Josiah owned up
to me the other night that she did. We had had a splendid good supper, and he
felt well, and he said so of his own accord. And then she favors her mother
considerable, a good-lookin’ woman as I ever see, and smart. Kitty is very fair
complected, smooth, as delicate as a sea-shell, with curly hair almost gold-
colored, only bearin’ a little on the brown, kinder fruzzly and fluffy on top,
blowin’ all over her forward when she goes out in the wind, or anything. And her
forward bein’ white as snow, when the little gold rings and curls are a blowin’
all over it, they look well. She has got sort ’o pinky cheeks, and her eyes are
big and dark, and kinder grey like, and all runnin’ over with fun and mischief.
She is the biggest witch out. And her lips are red as two roses, and always a
laughin’, them and her eyes; I don’t know which laughs the most. Her name is
Kitty, and she is just as affectionate as a little kitten, and as playful. I
think a sight on her. And I love to look at her. I always did love to look at a
handsome woman. There are some wimmen that it gauls to see a female handsomer
than they be, but it never did me. I always loved to see handsome pictures, and
a beautiful woman’s face is a picture with a soul in it. I set a great deal of
store by her, and so does Josiah and the childern; they are all a quarrelin’ now
which will have her the most. But we shan’t none of us have her long, I s’pose.
For she has told me in strict confidence, and if I tell, it must not go no
further, for it _must be kep’_! She don’t want Josiah and the childern to get
holt of it, knowin’ they would plague her most to death. She is engaged to be
married to a awful smart-lookin’ feller. She showed me his picture—a keen-eyed,
noble-lookin’ chap, I can tell you, and well off. His father owns the big
manufactory where her father was overseer when he died, and where her mother
keeps boarders now. His father stood out, at first, about his marryin’ a poor
girl. And Kitty come off out here for a long visit; her mother wanted her to;
they are both proud, and won’t force themselves into no company. But Mark—that
is the young feller’s name—Mark stands firm, and the old man is a comin’ round
gradual. Kitty, though she jest worships Mark, won’t go there till she is
welcome, and I bear her out in it. That is why she is here on such a long tower.
But she knows it is all a comin’ out right; her mother says it is; and Mark
writes to her every day or two, and she is happy as a bird. But she is a little
too full of fun sometimes, and thoughtless. She don’t realize things as she ort,
and as she will when she is older. Now there is a young feller here in
Jonesville that has got after her, Caleb Cobb, or Kellup, as everybody calls
him. And just out of pure fun she lets him foller her up. I feel bad about it,
and so I have told Josiah. But he said “she didn’t mean no more hurt than a
kitten did, a-playin’ with a mouse.”

Says I, “Josiah Allen, hain’t it bad for the mouse?”

“Wall,” says Josiah, “it no need to have been a mouse then.”

Says I, “That is a dretful deep argument, Josiah.” Says I, “I should be afraid
to be so smart, if I was in your place. I should be afraid they’d want me to
Congress.”

My tone was witherin’ and dry as a fish. But Josiah didn’t feel withered up. The
fact is, he hates Kellup, and loves to see him fooled, that is the truth on’t.
Kellup’s father is the cabinet-maker to Jonesville, and Kellup drives the
hearse, and he comes to see Kitty in it. His father does sights and sights of
business out in the country all round Jonesville, and every time Kellup is
called out with it, on his way home he will go milds and milds out of his way
for the privilege of stoppin’ and seein’ her. And he’ll hitch that hearse to the
front gate, and come in and try to court her. Why, anybody would think a
pestilence had broke out in our three housen, our’n, and Tirzah Ann’s, and
Thomas Jefferson’s, to see that hearse hitched in front of ’em every day or two.
It works me up and gives me awful feelin’s. But Kitty jest giggles and laughs
over it, and Josiah and the children encourages her in it. They hate Kellup like
pisen. And he is one of the stingiest, disagreeablest, conceitedest, self-
righteousest creeters that I ever see in my life. And pretends to be religious.
Why, I spose tight is no name for his tightness. Somebody made the remark that
he was a wolf in sheep’s clothing. And Thomas J. said it wasn’t nothin’ but the
sheep’s hide, then, for if it had been the hull pelt he’d sell the wool offen it
quicker’n a wink. And he thinks he is so beautiful, and dangerous to wimmen. But
I never could bear his looks. He has got great big black eyes, dretful shaller,
no depth to ’em, some like huckleberries, only bigger, but jest about as much
soul and expression into ’em as a huckleberry has. And a saller skin and low
forward, with sights of hair and whiskers. The curiousest hair, and the
singularest whiskers that I ever did see. [Illustration: KELLUP.] They are very
heavy and bushy, and he bein’ pretty well along in years, they would be as grey
as two rats. But bein’ a bachelder, and wantin’ to pass off as a young man, he
colors ’em. Which would be all perfectly proper and right, and no more than lots
of folks do; but the peculiarity is, he is so uncommon tight that he wont buy
hair dye, but makes experiments with himself, steeps up things, roots and herbs,
and stuffs he can buy cheap, minerals and things, cateku, and so 4th, and pusly.
And so you hardly ever see him twice with his hair and whiskers and eyebrows the
same color. And I’ll be hanged if he haint some of the time the curiousest
lookin’ creeter that was ever seen out side of a menagery. If he would only
settle down on one color and keep it up, it wouldn’t be so bad for him. London
brown hair and whiskers wouldn’t look so awful bad after you get used to ’em, or
cateku color, or madder red. But he thinks, I spose, that he will hit on
sunthin’ cheaper than he has hit on; so he will keep on tamperin’ with ’em, and
makin’ experiments, and you won’t no sooner get used to seein’ ’em cinneman
color, than the very next thing they will be a bright pusly color, or sorrel. It
jest spiles his looks, and so I have told Josiah. And he said “It was hard
spilin’ anything that was born spilt.” And I told him “That no human bein’ was
ever born with pusly-colored hair and whiskers.”

And he said “He was born a dumb fool!”

And I didn’t deny it, and didn’t try to, only I scolded him powerful and severe
on the “dumb.”

His hair and whiskers, as I say, are always some new and curius shade, very
changeable and oncertain, as to color, but they are always greasy. He uses
sights and sights of hair oil; he makes it himself out of lard, scented up high
with peppermint. He uses peppermint essence on his handkerchy, too (he gathers
his own peppermint and makes it, and uses it lavish). He says that is the only
vain, worldly luxury he indulges in. He says he feels guilty about usin’ up his
property in it, but it is such a comfort to him that he don’t feel as if he can
give it up. His clothes are always very cheap and poor lookin’, when he is
dressed up the most, but he dresses very poor the most of the time, for
principle, he says, to try to wean the wimmen from him as much as he can. And
take him with them clothes of hisen, and that curius lookin’ hair and whiskers
all round his chin, and up the sides of his face, he is as sepulchral and
singular a lookin’ a chap as I ever laid eyes on. He is a bachelder, Kellup is,
not from necessity, he says, but because he has found it so hard to select one
from the surroundin’ wimmen that want him. He has told me that the two main
reasons why he didn’t marry, one was, he found it so awful hard to select one
out of so many, and the other, it was so tryin’ to him to hurt the feelins’ of
them he would have to slight if he made a choice. Why, he talked with me about
it over two years ago. He was in to our house one day, and Josiah had been a
attin’ him about his not gettin’ married, and after Josiah went out, he talked
to me confidential. I s’pose it is that sort of a noble, lofty look, to my face,
that makes folks confide in me so much. Says he,

“I am tender-hearted, Josiah Allen’s wife. I am too tender-hearted for my own
good. There is so many wimmen that want me, and it would cut me, it would cut me
like a knife to have to disapinte so many.”

He stopped here for me to say sunthin’, and I remarked, in a sort of a dry tone,
that I wouldn’t worry about ’em, if I was in his place

“Wall,” says he, “I shouldn’t worry, if I was like some men. I should slash
right in and marry, without payin’ any attention to other wimmens feelin’s. But
if I should kill half a dozen wimmen or so, Josiah Allen’s wife, I feel that I
never should forgive myself.”

Here he stopped agin, and I see that he wanted me to say sunthin’; and not
knowin’ exactly what to say, I said sort o’ mechanically, without really
thinkin’ what I was a sayin’, that it would be a good stroke of business for his
father. “Yes,” says he, “but the profits we should make wouldn’t much more than
half pay me for the feelin’s I should have a thinkin’ I was the means of their
dyin’ off. “Why,” says he, takin’ out his pocket handkerchief and wipin’ his
forward, till the room smelt as strong as a peppermint sling,—“there haint a
woman in Jonesville but what would jump at the chance of marryin’ of me. But
they mustn’t calculate too strong on it. I wouldn’t be the one to tell ’em right
out plain that there wasn’t no hopes of gettin’ me. That would be a little too
heartless and cold-blooded in me. But they mustn’t build up too high castles in
the air about it, for I may not marry at all.”

“Like as not you wont,” says I, speakin’ not quite so mekanikle, but with
considerable more meanin’. “I shouldn’t wonder a mite if you didn’t.”

“No,” says he, foldin’ his arms and lookin’ haughtily at a picture of a woman
over the wood-box. “No; the thing of it is I am so tender-hearted, and hate so
to cause sufferin’. “I can’t,” says he, knittin’ up his eyebrows (they was a
kind of a olive green that day), “I _can’t_ marry all the wimmen that want me.
That is a settled thing. Anybody with half a mind can see that. I _can’t_ do it.
And so what would the result be if I should make a choice, and marry one. One
woman made happy, and cruelty, wanton, bloody cruelty, to all other wimmen fur
and near. Would that one woman’s happiness,” says he, knittin’ up his eye-brows
as hard as I ever see any knit, and I have seen some considerable hard knittin’
in my day, “would that one woman’s happiness go anywhere near makin’ up for the
agony that would rack the breasts of other wimmen, and tear their heart-strings
all to flitters? That is the question,” says he, lookin’ gloomily into the wood-
box, that is wearin’ on me night and day, and what shall I do to do right?”

[Illustration: THE WOMAN QUESTION.] “Wall,” says I, “I can’t advise you. I
wouldn’t marry, if I thought it was a goin’ to kill ten or a dozen; and I
wouldn’t marry anyway, unless I got a chance.”

“Chance!” says he haughtily. “Why, there haint a woman in the country but what
would jump to have me; that is,” says he in a reasonable tone, “if they wasn’t
too old to jump, or wasn’t disabled in some way, rheumatiz, or sunthin, or
sprains. They all want me.”

“Why,” says I, tryin’ to chirk him up, and make him feel better, “I thought it
was right the other way. I thought you had got the mitten more’n a dozen times.
There was Polly Bamber”—

“Oh, well. Polly Bamber loved me to distraction. She tried to conceal it from
me. She refused me, thinkin’ it would make me fiercer to marry her. But she got
fooled. I only asked her three times. She was waitin’ for the fourth, and I
spose she was as disapinted as a girl ever was. I was sorry for her; my heart
fairly ached for her; but I had a man’s dignity to keep up, and I left her.”

“Wall, there was Betsey Gowdey.”

“Betsey would have had me in a minute, if it hadn’t been for influences that was
brought to bear on her. She just as good as told me so. I s’pose she felt
awfully to lose me; but she bore up under it better than I thought she would. I
thought like as not she would break completely down under it.”

“Wall,” says I, tryin’ my best to chirk him up, “there was Mahala Grimshaw, and
Martha Ann Snyder, and Jane Boden, and Serena Rumsey, and Serepta Mandagool.”

[Illustration]

“Them girls was sorry enough, when it was too late. They lost me, every one of
them girls did, by puttin’ on airs and pretendin’ not to want me. Pretendin’ to
make fun of me, jest for an outside show. I see right through it. But I took ’em
at their word, and when they said they wouldn’t have me, I jest left ’em, and
paid no attention to what they suffered after I left. Sometimes I have thought
that mebby I was too harsh with ’em, to punish ’em so; but I did it, and I’d do
it agin if it was to do over. They no need to have been so deceitful. They might
expect to suffer for it, and I am glad they did.”

“There was Nabby Ellis,” says I dreamily. “Oh, Nabby was all right. It was envy
and jealousy that broke that up. Sam Larkins jest filled her ears about me, I
know he did; if he hadn’t, and hadn’t married her himself, Nabby would have gin
her ears to have had me. I think she thinks more of me to day than she does of
Sam; but I keep out of her way all I can; I don’t want to harrow up her
feelin’s. I am a young man of principle, if there ever was one. “Now I know of
several married wimmen that I am obleeged to treat cool and distant, for their
own good. What good would it do me?” says he, knittin’ up his eyebrows agin.
“What good could it do me for a lot of married wimmen to get over head and ears
in love with me? They know they can’t get me. And though they may feel hurt at
my coldness at the time, when they come to think it over they must know I am
actin’ for their good in the long run, by bein’ cold and distant to ’em, and
tryin’ my best to wean ’em from me. “Some young men don’t seem to have no idee
or care about the sufferin’ they cause on every side of ’em. They will trample
right round over female hearts, as if there wusn’t no more feelin’ in ’em than
in tan bark, and as if it didn’t hurt ’em and bruise ’em to tread on ’em. But it
haint my way. I don’t think a young man can be too careful about such things.
Why, I am so careful and conscientious that if I thought it was necessary for
females’ peace of mind, and the good of surroundin’ wimmen, I would be willin’
to wear a veil over my face the hull time.”

I looked him full and keen in the face, over the top of my specks, and told him
calmly that I didn’t think it was necessary. “Wall,” says he, “I am jest that
tender-hearted, that I would do it. I am too tender-hearted for my own good. I
know that very well. Now I want to get married, I want to badly; but there them
two reasons stand, right in front of me, headin’ me off. It haint the expense of
keepin’ a wife that holds me back, for I could more than make her pay her way,
doin’ the housework for father and me and five workmen. No, it is clear
principle that is headin’ me off. I may get reckless after a while.”

[Illustration: PAYIN’ HER WAY.] Says he, with a sort of a bitter mean onto him:
“I may get so carried away with some girl’s looks, and so hankerin’ after
matrimony, that I shall forget my conscience and principle, and slash right in
and marry her, and let the other wimmen go to wrack and ruin. But then agin when
I think what the consequences would probable be, why then I tremble.”

And he kinder shook some as if he had a chill. Says he: “When I think of Jane
Sofier Burpy. When I think what my feelin’s was as I drove her hearse to the
buryin’-ground. When I think how I felt durin’ that ride—why, I think I will
never meddle again with any women, in any way, shape, nor manner. When I think
how she wilted right down like a untimely flower cut down by the destroyer.”

“Why,” says I, “she died with a bile; that was what ailed her,—a carbuncle on
her back.”

“Yes,” says he, with a unbelievin’ look on his face, “so the doctors said; so
the cold world said. But I think it was sunthin’ deeper.”

[Illustration: HOW JANE WAS ROPED IN.] “Why,” says I, “a bile couldn’t go no
deeper than her’n went. It was dreadful. It was the death of her.”

Says he: “I have always had my own idee of what ailed her. I know what that idee
is, and I know what a guilty conscience is. I wuzn’t careful enough. I didn’t
mean no harm to her, Heaven knows I didn’t. But I wuzn’t careful enough. I
boarded two weeks with her mother the spring before she died. And I can see now
where I missed it, where I did wrong. I wuzn’t offish enough to her. I treated
her too friendly. I was off my guard, and didn’t notice how my attractions was
bein’ too much for her. [Illustration: THE DEATH BLOW.] “I paid her little
attentions to the table, such as passin’ her the mashed-up potatoes and the
beans. I talked with her, more or less. Once I helped her hang out the clothes-
line. I brought her letters from the post-office. Twice I helped her into a
wagon. I was onguarded. I think then was the time I give her her death-blow.”

And oh! what a harrowin’ and remorseful look he did cast into that wood-box, as
he said this. “She died in the fall. And my feelin’s durin’ that fall I shall
never forget. If that thing should happen agin, and my feelin’s prey on me as
they preyed then, I couldn’t stand it through more than seven or eight more such
cases. I know I couldn’t. I have been careful since then. When I’m obliged to
board now I don’t board in any house where there is a woman under seventy-five
years of age. And sometimes I am most afraid it is resky then.”

And agin he looked as gloomy at that wood-box as I ever see a box looked at. And
he waited a minute or two. Mebby he waited for me to say sunthin’ but I didn’t
say it, and he kep’ on:

“Several times sense that I have started up, and thought that I would marry
anyway, and leave the result. But it has seemed to be broke up every time
providential, and I’d make up my mind in the end not to have ’em. But after
awhile agin I will start up, and almost make my mind up, that marry I will, no
matter what the result may be. But there it is agin; I am too tender-hearted.
That is where the stick is with me. I know jest how skurce men are, and how
wimmen feel towards ’em. I know jest how they get their minds sot on ’em, and
how they feel to loose ’em. I have got principle, Josiah Allen’s wife. I am
principle clear to the back-bone.”

“Wall,” says I, “I don’t know but you be. I can’t dispute you, not knowin’ how
it is.”

“It may end,” says he, with a bitter look at the woman over the wood-box, “it
may end by my not marryin’ at all. But if I don’t marry, where will the blame
lie?”

Says he, speakin’ up louder and more excited than he had spoke up:

“I have been blamed; blamed in public places; right in the grocery, and on the
post-office steps; blamed by the trustees of the public school; blamed by the
old man that keeps the children’s toy-store; blamed by the census man for
shiftlessness, and slackness, in not increasin’ the population. “But where does
the blame rest? Is it with me, or with the wimmen that act so like furyation
that it is impossible for me to make a choice amongst ’em? “If I should tell
them men that the reason I had lived along, year after year, without marryin’
was that I was so tender-hearted, they would laugh at me.”

“I hain’t a doubt of it,” says I heartily and decidedly. “Yes, they would hoot
at me, so little can they enter into such a heart as mine. But I can’t always
live along in this way. Some day there may be a change. I give wimmen warnin’
that there may be.”

And so he went on for two hours, if it was a minute. Repeatin’ it over and over
agin, till I was as sick as a dog of hearin’ of it. But knowin’ he was talkin’
to me in confidence, I didn’t want to come right out plain, and tell him what I
thought of him. But I was glad enough when he got through and started off of his
own accord. But since Kitty come he has been to our house more than ever. He has
acted crazy as a loon about her. Though true to his principle, he asked Josiah
the other day, “if consumption run in her family, and if he thought it would go
too hard with her if he didn’t make up his mind to marry her.”

[Illustration: A JUDGMENT SEAT.] Old Cobb is well off, but he and Kellup works
hard, and fares hard. They stent themselves on clothes, and I don’t s’pose they
allow themselves hardly enough to eat and drink. And all the literary feasts and
recreations they allow themselves is to set round in stores and groceries, on
dry-goods boxes and butter-tubs, a-findin’ fault with the government, spittin’
tobacco-juice at the stove, and fixin’ the doom of sinners. Kellup is harder on
’em than the old man is. Old Cobb thinks there won’t be more’n half the world
saved; Kellup thinks there won’t be more than a quarter, if there is that. They
argue powerful. Have come to hands and blows frequent. And once Kellup knocked
the old man down, he was so mad and out of patience to think the old man
couldn’t see as he see about the Judgment. You know there is sights and sights
said on that subject now and wrote on it; and Kellup and the old man will borrow
books and papers that are wrote on it, some on one side and some on the other,
and then they’ll quarrel agin over them. And they’ve tried to draw me into their
arguments time and agin. But I have told ’em that I was a master hand to work
where I was needed most, and I didn’t seem to be needed so much a judgin’ the
world, and settlin’ on jest how many was a goin’ to be saved or lost, as I did a
mindin’ my own business, and tryin’ to read my own title clear to mansions in
the skies. Says I: “I find it a tuckerin’ job to take care of one sinner as she
ort to be took care of, and it would make me ravin’ crazy if I had to take care
of the hull universe.”

It fairly makes me out of patience, when there is so much work our Master sot
for us to do for His sake, it fairly makes me mad to see folks refuse to do a
mite of that work, but tackle jobs they hain’t sot to tackle. Why, the Lord
don’t, like a good many human bein’s, ask impossibilities of us. He only wants
us to do the best we can with what we have got to do with, and He will help us.
He never refused help to a earnest, strugglin’ soul yet. But He don’t calculate
nor expect us to judge the world, I know He don’t. Why, our Saviour said, in
that hour when it seemed as if the God and the man was both speakin’ from a
heart full of a human longin’ for love and a divine pity and tenderness for
sorrowful humanity,—He said, “If you love me, feed my sheep.” He said it twice
over, earnest and impressive. He meant to have it heard and understood. And once
He said, seemin’ly so afraid the childern wouldn’t be took care of, “Feed my
lambs.” That is a good plain business, tryin’ to feed them every way, doin’ our
best to satisfy all their hunger, soul and body. That is the work He wants us to
do, but He never gave a hint that He wanted us to judge the world. But He said
out plain and square more’n once, “_Judge not_.” Then what makes folks try to do
it? What makes ’em pass right by flocks and flocks of sheeps needy and perishin’
every way, pass right by these little lambs of Christ, hungry and naked,
stumblin’ right over ’em without pickin’ of ’em up? Why, they might fall right
over quantities of dead sheeps and dyin’ lambs, and not know it, they are so
rampent and determined on tacklin’ jobs they hain’t sot to tackle, crazy and sot
on judgin’ the world. Why, everybody says they never did see such a time as it
is now for arguin’ and fightin’ back and forth on that subject. Why, the papers
are full of it. “Is there a Hell?” And “How deep is it?” And “How many are a
goin’ there?” And “How long are they a goin’ to stay?” Books are wrote on it,
and lectures are lectured, and sermons are preached on both sides of the
Atlantic; and Kellup and his father are by no means the only ones who get mad as
hornets if anybody disputes ’em in their views of the Judgment. But I am glad
enough that I don’t feel that way, for it would make me crazy as a loon if I
thought I was sot to judge one soul, let alone the universe. Why, how under the
sun would I go to work to judge that one soul, and do it right? I could see some
of the outward acts, ketch glimpses of the outside self. But how could I unlock
that secret door that shuts in the real person,—how could I get inside that door
that the nearest and the dearest never peeked through, that God only holds the
key to—the secret recesses of the immortal soul—and behold the unspeakable, the
soarin’ desires, and yearnin’s, and divine aspirations—the good and true
intentions—the dreams and visions of immortal beauty, and purity, and
goodness—and the secret thoughts that are sin—the unfolded scarlet buds of
wrong, and the white folded buds of purity and holynesses, each waiting for the
breath of circumstance, of change, and what we call chance, to unfold and
blossom into beauty or hejusness? How could my eyes see if I should put on ’em
the very strongest spectacles earthly wisdom could make—how could they behold
all the passion and the glory, the despair and the rapture, the wingéd hopes and
faiths, the groveling, petty fears and cares, the human and the divine, the
eternal wonder and mystery of a soul? And if I could once ketch a glimpse of
this—that I never shall see, nor nobody else—if I could once get inside the
mystery of a mind, how could I judge it right? How could I go to work at it? How
could I tackle it? Good land, it makes me sweat jest to think on’t. How could I
test the strength of that mighty network of resistless influences that draws
that soul by a million links up toward Goodness and down toward Evil—binds it to
the outside world, and the spiritual and divine? How could I get a glimpse of
that unseen yet terrible chain of circumstances, the inevitable, that wraps that
soul almost completely round? How could I ever weigh, or get the right heft if I
could weigh ’em, of all the individual tendencies, inherited traits, sins, and
goodnesses that press down upon that soul? How could I tell how the affections,
powerful critters as I ever see, was a drawin’ it one way, and where? and how
fur? And ambitions and worldly desires, how they was a hawlin’ it another way,
and where to? and when? How true, noble aims and holy desires was pushin’ it one
way, and ignoble impulses, petty aims and littleness, self-seekin’, and
vainglory was givin’ it a shove the other way? Good land! if I could see all
these, and see ’em plain—which no one ever can or will—but if I could, how could
I ever sort ’em out, and mark ’em with their right name and heft, and calculate
how far they was a drawin’ and a influencin’ that soul, and how fur it had power
to resist? How could the eyes of my spectacles ever see jest how fur down into
the depths of that soul shone the Divine Ideal, the holy, stainless image of
what we pray to be,—and jest how fur the mists that rise up from our earthly
soil darken and blind that light? Good land! I couldn’t do it, nor Josiah, nor
nobody. We are blind creeters, the fur-seein’est of us; weak creeters, when we
think we are the strong-mindedest. Now, when we hear of a crime, it is easy to
say that the one who committed that wrong stepped flat off from goodness into
sin, and should be hung. It is so awful easy and sort o’ satisfactory to condemn
other folks’es faults that we don’t stop to think that it may be that evil was
fell into through the weakness and blindness of a mistake. Jest as folks fall
down suller lots of times a gropin’ round in the dark tryin’ to find the outside
door, and can’t. Doin’ their best to get out where it is lighter, out into the
free air of Heaven, and first they know, entirely unbeknown to them, they open
the wrong door, and there they are down suller, dark as pitch, and mebby with a
sore and broken head. And if a wrong is done wilfully, with a purpose, it is
easy to think of nothin’ but the wrong, and not give a thought to what
influences stood behind that soul, a pushin’ it off into sin. Early influences,
sinful teachin’s drunk down eagerly before the mind could seperate the evil from
the good. Criminal inheritances of depraved tastes, and wayward and distorted
intellect, wretched, depressing surroundings, lack of all comfort, hope, faith
in God or man, ignorance, blind despair, all a standin’ behind that soul pushin’
it forward into a crime. And then when we read of some noble, splendid act of
generosity, our souls burn within us, and it is easy to say, the one who did
that glorious deed should be throned and crowned with honor—not thinkin’ how,
mebby unbeknown to us, that act was the costly and glitterin’ varnish coverin’
up a whited sepulchre. That deed was restin’ on self-seekin’, ambitious
littleness. Yes, we are blind creeters. And there is but One who holds the key
to the terror, the glory, and the mystery of a soul. He, only, can see and
judge. He whose age is ageless, and who can therefore alone judge of the mighty
flood of influences that pour down upon the soul from that ageless past, swayin’
it with mysterious power. He whose life fills that boundless future—Eternity—He
alone knows the strength of those mighty forces drawin’ us thither. He who sees
the unseen—whose eyes can alone pierce the clouds that close so dark about us,
and behold the host of shadowy forms that surround us on every side, angels and
demons, things present, things to come, life, and death, and every other
creature—He only knows their power over us. He who alone knows the meaning of
life, the mystery of our creation. And all that keeps me from bein’ ravin’
distracted in even meditatin’ on this is to calm myself down on this thought,
that there is One who knows all. And He alone can judge of what He alone can
see. He, the just and loving One, will do right with the souls He made. Why, if
I didn’t lean up against that thought, and lean heavy, I should tottle and
wobble round to that extent that I should fall to pieces—be a perfect wrack and
ruin in no time. And another thought that gives me sights of comfort is, He
don’t need none of my help in judgin’ the world. And if I was ever glad of
anything in my life, I am glad of that. Why, in my opinion, it is irreverent,
the very height of audacity, to dare to affirm what shall be the doom of a
single soul. Then to think of the countless millions on earth, and who sleep in
its bosom—and the countless, countless worlds that fill endless and boundless
space, the unnumbered hosts of the ageless past, and the endless future—the
Eternity—and jest to speak that word almost takes away my breath—and then to
think of us, poor, blind little aunts, on a aunt-hill, deciding on this mighty
mystery, writin’ books, preachin’ sermons, givin’ lectures, one way and another,
judgin’ the fate of these souls, and where they are goin’ to, and quarrelin’
over it. In my opinion it would be better for us to spend some of the breath we
waste in this way in prayer to Him who is Mighty, for help in right living. Or,
if we can’t do any better with it, let us spend a very little of it, mebby ½ of
it, in coolin’ porridge for the starvin’ ones right round us; that would be
better than to spend it as we do do, in beatin’ the air, quarrelin’ on who is
goin’ to be saved, and how many. Them’s my idees, but, howsomever, everybody to
their own mind. But good land! I am a eppisodin’, and a eppisodin’, beyond the
patience of anybody. And to resoom and proceed:

As I was a sayin’ of Kellup and his father, I s’pose there’s lots of things said
about ’em that there hain’t no truth in. Now I don’t believe that they chaw
spruce-gum for dinner, and eat snow and icicles in the time of ’em—not to make a
stiddy practice of it. Why, they couldn’t stand it, not for any length of time.
But you know when anybody gets their name up for any particular thing, it is
dretful easy—don’t take hardly a mite of strength—to histe it up a little
higher. But I see this myself, with my own eye. Last Thanksgivin’ I was in the
meat-shop to Jonesville, a buyin’ a turkey, and some lamb, and oysters, and
things. I was goin’ to have the childern home to dinner. And Kellup come in, and
said his father thought it was such hard times they wouldn’t try to keep
Thanksgivin’ this year. But he told his father it showed a ungrateful heart for
all the mercies and benefits that had been bestowed on ’em durin’ the year, and
it was settin’ a bad example to sinners round ’em to not celebrate it; so he had
carried the day, and they was goin’ to swing right out, and buy half a pound of
fresh beef, and celebrate. And he bought it, and beat the butcher half a cent on
that. I think myself that he is as tight as the bark to a tree, but I don’t
believe he is any tighter. But they say he is as tight agin. [Illustration:
SWINGIN’ OUT.] Like myself and Josiah, Kellup is a member of the Methodist
meetin’-house. And he is a dretful case to exhort other folks. And jest like
them that don’t do nothin’ themselves, that never did a noble, generous act in
their lives, he is a great case to talk about other folks’es duty. And jest like
them that are too stingy to draw a long breath for fear of wearin’ out their
lungs, he is a great case to talk about other folks’es givin’. If anybody has
decent clothes and vittles, he is always talkin’ about their extravagance, and
how much they could do for the sufferin’ poor round ’em with the money. And a
man could starve to death right on the road in front of him, and all he would do
would be to stop that hearse, and exhort him from the top of it. Not a cent
would he give if the man died right there in under the hearse. I despise such
Christians, and I always shall; and there are lots of ’em all round us, who are
always talkin’ about workin’ for Christ, and all the work they do is with their
tongues. I say such religion is vain; empty as tinglin’ brass, and soundin’
thimbles. [Illustration: A COB(B) WITHOUT CORN.] From the time he wore
roundabouts, Kellup’s father promised him that jest as quick as he got big
enough he should drive that hearse, and it has lifted him up, that hearse has,
and always made him feel above the other boys. He has always seemed to think
that was the highest station in life he could get up onto. We all think that the
reason he comes to see Kitty on it, is he thinks he looks more stately and
imposin’ on it than he would walkin’ afoot. And when the childern, the little
Jonesvillians, hoot at him, and make all manner of fun of him, he thinks they
envy him, and it makes him act haughtier than ever, and more proud-spirited, and
stiff-necked. As I say, I feel bad, and I take Kitty to do about it every time I
see her a’most. And she’ll say:

“Oh, Auntie! it is too rich!”

[Illustration: KITTY’S KISS.] And she’ll laugh, and kiss me, and coax me not to
be cross about it, till she makes most as big a fool of me as she does of
Kellup, and I tell her so. But I stand firm, and try to make her feel a
realizin’ sense how it looks to have a hearse standin’ round promiscous every
few days, hitched to our front gate. It is a solemn thing to me. And would be to
anybody who looked at things serious and solemn. Most every subject has several
sides to it, and some has more’n 20. And folks ort to tutor themselves to hold a
subject right up in their hands, and look on every side of it. But Kitty don’t
try to. The humorous side of things is the side she meditates on. And she thinks
that Kellup’s travelin’ round after her on that hearse has a funny side to it.
But I can’t see it. It is a solemn thing to me to see it drive up to our gate
any time o’ day, and be hitched there, while he comes in and tries to court her.
Why, it looks fairly wicked to me, and I tell her so. And then she’ll giggle and
laugh, and make a perfect fool of Kellup. Or, that is, improve on the job; for
truly Nater helped her powerful at his birth. Nater did a good job in that
line—in the fool line. Though you couldn’t make him think he was most a fool, or
leanin’ heavy that way, not if you should drive the fact into his head with a
hammer. It is one of the hardest things in the world to make folks believe.
They’ll own up to bein’ a fool twice as quick. But as I say, it worries me most
to death. And there is only jest one thing that keeps me from comin’ right out
and puttin’ a stop to it, and tellin’ Kellup she is a foolin’ of him. I have
meditated on it powerful. And sometimes I have thought that he needs such a
affliction. Sometimes I have thought that, bein’ so overbearin’, and haughty,
and big-feelin’, that such a takin’ down is what he needs to lift him up
(morally). But though that principle holds up my spirit, it is a hard trial to
my spirit, and to the eye of my spectacles. And I’ll say to Josiah, every time I
see him drive up, and groan loud as I say it: “I should think he’d know better
than to go a courtin’ with a hearse.”

But he says: “Keep still; it don’t hurt you any, does it?”

That man enjoys it. He has wicked streaks, and I tell him so. And says I:

“Josiah Allen, you don’t seem to know what solemnity is, or what wickedness is.”

And he says: “I know what a dumb fool is.”

And that is all the help I can get. And I s’pose I shall have to let it go on.
But I feel like death about it. When he comes here, and Kitty don’t happen to be
here, he will always begin to exhort me on religion. He is the disagreeablest,
self-righteousest creeter I ever see, and that I won’t deny. “Oh,” says he to me
yesterday—there had been a funeral up by here, and when he came back he hitched
the hearse, and come in. And he began to exhort me, and says he: “I have been a
thinkin’ of it all day,—how glad I am that salvation is free.”

I felt wore out with him, and says I: “Well you may be glad. For if it wasn’t
free, you wouldn’t have any—not a mite. You wouldn’t either if you had to pay a
cent for it.”

Before he could say anything, Kitty come in. She had been out to the barn with
Josiah to feed the sheep. She looked like a blush-rose; her eyes a dancin’ and a
sparklin’. And Kellup acted spoonier than any spoon I have got on my buttery
shelves. [Illustration]

JOSIAH GOES INTO BUSINESS. Josiah Allen has got a sort of a natural hankerin’
after makin’ money easy. A sort of a speculatin’ turn to his mind, which most
men have. But not havin’ the other ingregiences that go with it to make it a
success, his speculations turn out awful, 2 episodes of which I will relate and
set down. One pleasant evenin’ Josiah had jest got back from carryin’ Kitty
Smith to Tirzah Ann’s. Tirzah Ann had sent for her to stay a spell with her. And
Josiah had got back and put the horses out, and sot by the fire a meditatin’ to
all outward appearance. When all of a sudden he broke out and says:

“Samantha, I love to make money easy.”

“Do you?” says I, in a mechanicle way, for I was bindin’ off the heel of a sock
of hisen, and my mind was sort o’ drawed out by that heel, and strained. “Yes,”
says he, crossin’ his legs, and lookin’ dretful wise at me, “Yes, I love to,
like a dog. I love to kinder speculate.”

I had bound off the last stitch, and my mind bein’ free it soared up noble agin,
and I says firmly and impressively:

“Good, honest hard work is the best speculation I ever went into, Josiah Allen.”

“Yes,” says he, with that same dretful wise look, “wimmen naterally feel
different about these things. Wimmen haint got such heads onto ’em as we men
have got. We men love to make money by a speck. We love to get rich by head
work.”

I jest give one look onto his bald head, a strange, searchin’ look, that seemed
to go right through his brains and come out the other side. I didn’t say
anything, only jest that look, but that spoke (as it were) loud. He looked
kinder meachin’, and hastened to explain. “I am goin’ to fix up that old house
of our’n, Samantha, and rent it,” says he. “I am goin’ to make piles and piles
of money out of it, besides the comfort we can take a neighborin’.” “And,” says
he, “I love to—to neighbor, Samantha—I love to deerly.”

Says I in calm tones, but firm: “There are worse neighbors, Josiah Allen, than
them that are livin’ in the old house now.”

“Livin’ there now?” says he. And his eyes stood out from ¼ to a ½ a inch in
surprise and horrer. “Yes,” says I, “you’ll find, Josiah Allen, that take it
right along from day to day, and from year to year, that there are worse
creeters to neighbor with than Peace, and Quiet, and Repose.”

“Dummit! scare a man to death, will you?”

Says I: “Stop swearin’ to once, Josiah Allen, and instantly!”

My mean was lofty and scareful, and he stopped. But he went on in a firm and
obstinate axent: “I am determined to fix up that house and rent it. Wimmen can’t
see into business. They haint got the brains for it. You haint to blame for it,
Samantha, but you haint got the head to see how profitable I am goin’ to make
it. And then our nearest neighbors live now well onto a quarter of a mile away.
How neat it will be to have neighbors right here by us, all the time, day and
night.” And agin he says dreamily: “If I ever loved anything in this world,
Samantha, I love to neighbor.”

But I held firm, and told him he’d better let well enough alone. But he was sot
as sot could be, and went on and fixed up the house. It was a old house right
acrost the road from our’n. One that was on the place when we bought it. All
shackly and run down; nobody had lived in it for years. And I knew it wouldn’t
pay to spend money on it. But good land! he wouldn’t hear a word to me. He went
on a fixin’ it, and it cost him nearer a hundred dollars than it did anything
else—besides lamin’ himself, and blisterin’ his hands to work on it himself, and
fillin’ his eyes with plaster, and gettin’ creeks in his back, a liftin’ round
and repairin’. [Illustration]

But he felt neat through it all. It seemed as if the more money he laid out, and
the worse he got hurt, the more his mind soared up, a lottin’ on how much money
he was goin’ to make a rentin’ it, and what a beautiful time he was a goin’ to
enjoy a neighborin’. He would talk about neighborin’ most the hull time days,
and would roust me up nights if he happened to think of any new and happifyin’
idea on the subject. Till if ever I got sick of any word in the hull dictionary,
I got sick of that. Well, jest as quick as the house was done, and he pushed the
work on rapid and powerful, fairly drove it, he was in such a hurry, nothin’ to
do but he must set off huntin’ up a renter, for he couldn’t seem to wait a
minute. I told him to keep cool. Says I “You’ll make money by it if you do.”

But no! he couldn’t wait till somebody come to him. He wouldn’t hear a word to
me. He’d throw wimmen’s heads in my face, and say they was week, and wuzn’t like
men’s. He was so proud and haughty about the speck he had gone into, and the
piles and piles of money he was goin’ to make, that once or twice he told me
that I hadn’t no head at all. And then he’d hitch up the old mare, and go off a
huntin’ round and enquirin’. And finally one day he come home from Jonesville
tickled to death seeminly. He’d found a family and engaged ’em—Jonathan
Spinks’es folks. They was to Jonesville a stayin’ with Miss Spinks’es sister,
Sam Thrasher’s wife, and they had heerd of Josiah’s huntin’ round; so they
hailed him as he was a goin’ by, and engaged it, made the bargain right there on
the spot. And as I said, he was tickled to death almost, and says to me in a
highlarius axent:

“They are splendid folks, Samantha.”

Says I in very cold tones: “Are they the Spinkses that used to live to Zoar?”

“Yes,” says he. “And they are a beautiful family, and I have made a splendid
bargain. 50 dollars a year for the house and garden. What do you think now? I
never should have known they was a lookin’ for a house if I hadn’t been a
enquirin’ round. What do you think now about my keepin’ cool?”

Says I mildly, but firmly: “My mind haint changed from what it wuz more
formally.”

“Wall, what do you think now about my lettin’ the old house run down, when I can
make 50 dollars a year, clear gain, besides more’n three times that in solid
comfort a-neighberin’?”

Says I, firm as a rock, “My mind hain’t changed, Josiah Allen, so much as the
width of a horsehair.”

“Wall,” says he, “I always said wimmen hadn’t no heads, I always knew it. But it
is agravatin’, it is dumb agravatin’, when anybody has done the head-work I have
done, and made such a bargain as I have made, to not have anybody’s wife
appreciate it. And I should think it was about time to have supper, if you are
goin’ to have any to-night.”

[Illustration: ARRIVAL OF THE SPINKSES.] I calmly rose and put on the teakettle,
and never disputed a word with him whether I had a head or not. Good land! I
knew I had one, and what was the use of arguin’ about it? And I didn’t say
nothin’ more about his bargain, for I see it wouldn’t do no good. ’Twas all
settled, and the writin’s drawed. But I kep’ up a severe thinkin’. I had heard
of Spinks’es folks before. It had come right straight to me. Miss Ebenezer
Gowdey, she that was Nabby Widrick, her nephew’s wive’s step-mother, old Miss
Tooler, had lived neighber to ’em. And Miss Tooler told Nabby, and Nabby told
me, that they was shiftless creeters. But when bargains are all made, it is of
no use tryin’ to convince Josiahs. And I knew if I should tell Josiah what I had
heard he’d only go to arguin’ agin that I hadn’t no head. So I didn’t say
nothin’. And the next day they moved in. It seems they had brought all their
things to Thrashers’es. They said the house they had been livin’ in to Zoar was
so uncomfortable they couldn’t stay in it a day longer. But we heard
afterwards—Miss Tooler told Nabby Gowdey with her own lips—that they was smoked
out. The man that owned the house smoked ’em out to get rid of ’em. Wall, as I
said, they come. Mr. Spink, his wife, and his wife’s sister (she was Irish), and
the childern. And oh! how neat Josiah Allen did feel. He was over there before
they had hardly got sot down, and offered to do anything under the sun for ’em,
and offered ’em everything we had in the house. I, myself, kep’ cool and
collected together. Though I treated ’em in a liberal way, and in the course of
two or three days I made ’em a friendly call, and acted well towards ’em. But
instead of runnin’ over there the next day, and two or three times a day, I made
a practice of stayin’ to home considerable; and Josiah took me to do for it. But
I told him I treated them exactly as I wanted them to treat me. Says I, “A mejum
course is the best course to pursue in nearly every enterprise in life,
neighberin’ especially. I begin as I can hold out. I lay out to be kind and
friendly to ’em, but I don’t intend to make it my home with them, nor do I want
them to make it their home with me. Once in two or three days is enough, and
enough, Josiah Allen, is as good as a feast.”

“Wall,” says he, “if I ever enjoyed anything in this world I enjoy neighberin’
with them folks. And they think the world of me. It beats all how they worship
me. The childern take to me so, they don’t want me out of their sight hardly a
minute. Spink and his wife says they think it is in my looks. You know I _am_
pretty lookin’, Samantha. They say the baby will cry after me so quick. It beats
all what friends we have got to be, I and the Spinkses, and it is agravatin’,
Samantha, to think you don’t seem to feel towards ’em that strong friendship
that I feel.”

Says I, “Friendship, Josiah Allen, is a great word. True friendship is the most
beautiful thing on earth; it is love without passion, tenderness without alloy.
And,” says I, soarin’ up into the realm of allegory, where, on the feathery
wings of pure eloquence, I fly frequent, “Intimacy hain’t friendship. Two men
may sleep together, year after year, on the same feather-bed, and wake up in the
mornin’, and shake hands with each other, perfect strangers, made so unbeknown
to them. And feather-beds, nor pillers, nor nothin’ can’t bring ’em no nigher to
each other. And they can keep it up from year to year, and lock arms and
prominade together through the day, and not get a mite closer to each other.
They can keep their bodies side by side, but their souls, who can tackle ’em
together, unless nature tackled ’em, unbeknown to them? Nobody. And then, agin,
two persons may meet, comin’ from each side of the world; and they will look
right through each other’s eyes down into their souls, and see each other’s
image there; born so, born friends, entirely unbeknown to them. Thousands of
milds apart, and all the insperations of heaven and earth; all the influences of
life, education, joy, and sorrow, has been fitting them for each other
(unbeknown to them): twin souls, and they not knowin’ of it.”

[Illustration: YOKED BUT NOT MATED.] “Speakin’ of twin—” says Josiah. But I was
soarin’ too high to light down that minute. So I kep’ on, though his
interruption was a-lowerin’ me down gradual. “There is a great filisofical fact
right here, Josiah Allen,” says I, tryin’ to bring down and fit the idee to my
pardner’s comprehension, for it is ever my way to try to convince, as well as to
soar in oritory. “You may yoke up the old mare and the brindle cow together and
drive ’em year after year in a buggy. But you can’t make that horse into a cow,
or make that old cow whinner. It can’t be done. And two wimmen may each of ’em
have half a shear, and think they will screw ’em together and save property, and
cut some with ’em. But if one of them halves is 2 or 3 inches shorter than the
other, and narrower, how be they goin’ to cut with ’em? All the screws and
wrenches in creation can’t do no more than hold ’em together. It hain’t no use
if they wuzn’t made to fit each other in the first place, unbeknown to them.”
Says I, “Some folks are j’ined together for life in jest that way, drawn
together by some sort of influence, worldly considerations, blind fancy,
thoughtlessness, and the minister’s words fasten ’em, jest as these shears was.
But good land! after the vapory, dreamy time of the honeymoon is passed through,
and the heavy, solid warp and woof of life lays before ’em for them to cut a
path through it, they’ll find out whether they fit each other or not. And if
they don’t, it is tejus business for ’em, extremely tejus, and they’ll find it
out so.”—“Speakin’ of twin—” says Josiah. [Illustration: JOSIAH NEIGHBORS.] His
persistent and stiddy follerin’ up of his own train of thought, and the twin,
was lowerin’ me down now awful fast, and says I, sort o’ concludin’ up, “Be good
and kind to everybody, and Mr. Spinks’es folks, as you have opportunity; but
before you make bosom friends of ’em, wait and see if your soul speaks.” Says I,
firmly, “Mine don’t, in this case.”

“Speakin’ of twin,” says Josiah agin, “Did you ever see so beautiful a twin as
Mr. Spinks’es twin is? What a pity they lost the mate to it! Their ma says it is
perfectly wonderful the way that babe takes to me. I held it all the while she
was ironin’, this forenoon. And the two boys foller me round all day, tight to
my heels, instead of their father. Spink says they think I am the prettiest man
they ever see, almost perfectly beautiful.”

I give Josiah Allen a look full in his face, a curious look, very searchin’ and
peculiar. But before I had time to say anything, only jest that look, the door
opened, and Spinks’es wive’s sister come in unexpected, and said that Miss Spink
wanted to borrow the loan of ten pounds of side pork, a fine comb, some flour,
the dish-kettle, and my tooth-brush. I let her have ’em all but the tooth-brush,
for I was determined to use ’em well. And Josiah didn’t like it at all because I
didn’t let that go. And he said in a fault-findin’, complainin’ axent “that I
didn’t seem to want to be sociable.”

And I told him that “I thought borrowin’ a tooth-brush was a little _too_
sociable.”

And he most snapped my head off, and muttered about my not bein’ neighborly, and
that I didn’t feel a mite about neighborin’ as he did. And I made a vow, then
and there (inside of my mind), that I wouldn’t say a word to Josiah Allen on the
subject, not if they borrowed us out of house and home. Thinkses I, I can stand
it as long as he can; if they spile our things, he has got to pay for new ones;
if they waste our property, he has got to lose it; if they spile our comfort,
he’s got to stand it as well as I have; and, knowin’ the doggy obstinacy of his
sect, I considered this great truth, and acted on it, that the stiller I kep’,
and the less I said about ’em, the quicker he’d get sick of ’em; so I held firm.
And never let on to Josiah but what it was solid comfort to me to have ’em there
all the time a most; and not have a minute I could call my own; and have ’em
borrow everything under the sun that ever was borrowed: garden-sass of all
kinds, and the lookin’-glass, groceries, the old cat, vittles, cookin’ utensils,
stove-pipe, a feather-bed, bolsters, bed-clothes, and the New Testament. They
even borrowed Josiah’s clothes. Why, Spink wore Josiah’s best pantaloons more
than Josiah did. He got so he didn’t act as if he could stir out without
Josiah’s best pantaloons. He’d keep a tellin’ that he was goin’ to get a new
pair, but he didn’t get ’em, and would hang onto Josiah’s. And Josiah had to
stay to home a number of times jest on that account. And then he’d borrow
Josiah’s galluses. Josiah had got kinder run out of galluses, and hadn’t got but
one pair of sound ones. And Josiah would have to pin his pantaloons onto his
vest, and the pins would lose out, and it was all Josiah could do to keep his
clothes on. It made it awful bad for him. I know one day, when I had a lot of
company, I had to wink him out of the room a number of times, to fix himself so
he would be decent. But all through it I kep’ still, and never said a word. I
see we was loosin’ property fast, and had lost every mite of comfort we had
enjoyed, for there was some of ’em there every minute of the time, a most, and
some of the time two or three of ’em. Why, Miss Spink used to come over and eat
breakfast with us lots of times. She’d say she felt so mauger that she couldn’t
eat nothin’ to home, and she thought mebby my vittles would go to the place. And
besides losin’ our property and comfort, I’ll be hanged if I didn’t think
sometimes that I should lose my pardner by ’em, they worked him so. But I held
firm. Thinkses I to myself, it must be that Josiah will get sick of neighborin’,
after a while, and start ’em off. For the sufferin’s that man endured couldn’t
never be told nor sung. Why, before they had been there a month, as I told
sister Bamber,—she was to our house a visitin’, and Josiah was in the buttery a
churnin’, and I knew he wouldn’t hear,—says I: “They have borrowed everything I
have got, unless it is Josiah.”

And if you’ll believe it, before I had got the words out of my mouth, Miss
Spinks’es sister opened the door, and walked in, and asked me “if I could spare
Mr. Allen to help stretch a carpet.”

And I whispered to sister Bamber, and says I: “If they haint borrowed the last
thing now; if they haint borrowed Josiah.”

But I told the girl “to take him an’ welcome.” (I was very polite to ’em, and
meant to be, but cool.) [Illustration: BORROWIN’ JOSIAH.] So I took holt and
done the churnin’ myself, and let him go. And he come home perfectly tuckered
out. Wasn’t good for nothin’ hardly for several days. He got strained somehow a
pullin’ on that carpet. But after that they would send for him real often to
help do some job. They both took as much agin liberty with Josiah as they did
with me; they worked him down almost to skin and bones. Besides all the rest he
suffered. Why, his cow-sufferin’ alone was perfectly awful. They had a cow, a
high-headed creeter; as haughty a actin’ cow as I ever see in my life. She would
hold her head right up, and walk over our fence, and tramp through the garden. I
didn’t know how Josiah felt about it, but I used to think myself that I could
have stood it as well agin if it hadn’t been so high headed. It would look so
sort o’ independent and overbearin’ at me, when it was a walkin’ through the
fence, and tramplin’ through the garden. Josiah always laid out his beds in the
garden with a chalk-line, as square and beautiful as the pyramids, and that cow
jest leveled ’em to the ground. They tied her up nights, but she would get
loose, and start right for our premises; seemed to take right to us, jest as the
rest of ’em did. But I held firm, for I see that gettin’ up night after night,
and goin’ out in the night air, chasin’ after that cow, was coolin’ off my
companion’s affection for the Spinkses. [Illustration: SPINKS’ES COW—A NIGHT
SCENE.] And then they kept the awfulest sight of hens. I know Josiah was dretful
tickled with the idee at first, and said, “mebby we could swap with ’em, get
into their kind of hens.”

And I told him in a cautious way “that I shouldn’t wonder a mite if we did.”

[Illustration: OUR HEN-DAIRY.] Wall, them hens seemed to feel jest as the rest
of the family did; didn’t seem to want to stay to home a minute, but flocked
right over onto us; stayed right by us day and night; would hang round our doors
and door-steps, and come into the house every chance they could get, daytimes;
and nights, would roost right along on the door-yard fence, and the front porch,
and the lilack bushes, and the pump. Why, the story got out that we was keepin’
a hen-dairy, and strangers who thought of goin’ into the business would stop and
holler to Josiah, and ask him if he found it profitable to keep so many hens.
And I’d see that man shakin’ his fist at ’em, after they would go on, he would
be that mad at ’em. Somehow the idee of keepin’ a hen-dairy was always dretful
obnoxious to Josiah, though it is perfectly honorable, as far as I can see.
Finally, he had made so much of ’em, the two boys got to thinkin’ so much of
Josiah that they wanted to sleep with him, and he, thinkin’ it wouldn’t be
neighborly to refuse, let ’em come every little while. And they kicked awfully.
They kicked Josiah Allen till he was black and blue. It come tough on Josiah,
but I didn’t say a word, only I merely told him “that of course he couldn’t
expect me to sleep with the hull neighborhood,” so I went off, and slept in the
settin’-room bedroom. It made me a sight of work, but I held firm. At last Spink
and his wife, and his wife’s sister, got into the habit of goin’ off nights to
parties, and leavin’ the twin with Josiah. And though it almost broke my heart
to see his sufferin’s, still, held up by principle, and the aim I had in view, I
would go off and sleep in the settin’-room bedroom, and let Josiah tussle with
it. Sometimes it would have the colic most all night, and the infantum, and the
snuffles. But, though I could have wept when I heerd my pardner a groanin’ and a
sithein’ in the dead of night, and a callin’ on heaven to witness that no other
man ever had the sufferin’s he was a sufferin’, still, held up by my aim, I
would lay still, and let it go on. It wore on Josiah Allen. His health seemed to
be a runnin’ down; his morals seemed to be loose and totterin’; he would snap me
up every little while as if he would take my head off; and unbeknown to him I
would hear him a jawin’ to himself, and a shakin’ his fist at nothin’ when he
was alone, and actin’. But I kep’ cool, for though he didn’t come out and say a
word to me about the Spinkses, still I felt a feelin’ that there would be a
change. But I little thought the change was so near. But one mornin’ to the
breakfast-table, as I handed Josiah his fourth cup of coffee, he says to me,
says he:

“Samantha, sposen we go to Brother Bamberses to-day, and spend the day. I feel,”
says he, with a deep sithe, “I feel as if I needed a change.”

Says I, lookin’ pityingly on his pale and haggard face, “you do, Josiah,” and
says I, “if I was in your place I would speak to Brother Bamber about the state
of your morals.” Says I, in a tender yet firm tone, “I don’t want to scare you,
Josiah, nor twit you, but your morals seem to be a totterin’; I am afraid you
are a back-slidin’, Josiah Allen.”

He jumped right up out of his chair, and shook his fist over towards the
Spinks’es house, and hollered out in a loud, awful tone:

“My morals would be all right if it wuzn’t for them dumb Spinkses, dumb ’em.”

You could have knocked me down with a pin-feather (as it were), I was that
shocked and agitated; it had all come onto me so sudden, and his tone was so
loud and shameful. But before I could say a word he went on, a shakin’ his fist
vehementer and wilder than I ever see a fist shook:

“I guess you be neighbored with as I have been, and slept with by two wild-cats,
and be kicked till you are black and blue, and mebby you’d back-slide!”

Says I: “Josiah Allen, if you don’t go to see Brother Bamber to-day, Brother
Bamber shall come and see you. Did I ever expect to live,” says I, with a gloomy
face, “to see my pardner rampagin’ round worse than any pirate that ever swum
the seas, and shakin’ his fist, and actin’. I told you in the first on’t, Josiah
Allen, to begin as you could hold out.”

“What if you did?” he yelled out. “Who thought we’d be borrowed out of house and
home, and visited to death, and trampled over by cows, and roosted on; who
s’posed they’d run me over with twin, and work me down to skin and bone, and
foller me ’round tight to my heels all day, and sleep with me nights, and make
dumb lunaticks of themselves? Dumb em!”

Says I in firm accents, “Josiah Allen, if you swear another swear to-day, I’ll
part with you before Squire Baker.” Says I, “It betters it, don’t it, for you to
start up and go to swearin’.”

Before Josiah could answer me a word, the door opened and in come Miss Spink’ses
sister. They never none of ’em knocked, but dropped right down on us unexpected,
like sun-strokes. Says she, with a sort of a haughty, independent mean onto her
(some like their cow’s mean), and directin’ her conversation to Josiah:

“Mr. Spink is goin’ to have his likeness took, to-day, and he would be glad to
borrow the loan of your pantaloons and galluses. And he said if you didn’t want
your pantaloons to go without your boots went with ’em, he guessed he’d wear
your boots, as his had been heel-tapped and might show. And the two boys bein’
so took up with you, Mr. Allen, their Ma thought she’d let ’em come over here
and sleep with you while they was gone; they didn’t know but they might stay
several days to her folks’es, as they had heard of a number of parties that was
goin’ to be held in that neighborhood. And knowin’ you hadn’t no little childern
of your own, she thought it might be agreeable to you to keep the twin, while
they was gone—and—and—”

She hadn’t got through with her speech, and I don’t know what she would have
tackled us for next. But the door opened without no warnin’, and in come Miss
Spink herself, and she said that “Spink had been urgin’ her to be took, too, and
they kinder wanted to be took holt of hands, and they thought if Josiah and me
had some kid gloves by us, they would borrow the loan of ’em; they thought it
would give ’em a more genteel, aristocratic look. And as for the childern,” says
she, “we shall go off feelin’ jest as safe and happy about ’em as if they was
with us, they love dear Mr. Allen so.” And says she with a sweet smile, “I have
lived on more places than I can think of hardly—we never have lived but a little
while in a place, somehow the climates didn’t agree with us long at a time. But
never, in all the places we have lived in, have we ever had such neighbors,
never, never did we take such solid comfort a-neighborin’, as we do here.”

Josiah jumped right upon his feet, and shook his fist at her, and says he, in a
more skareful tone than he had used as yet:

“You have got to stop it. If you don’t stop neighberin’ with me, I’ll know the
reason why.”

Miss Spink looked skairt, and agitated awful, but I laid hands on him, and says
I, “Be calm, Josiah Allen, and compose yourself down.”

“I won’t be calm!” says he; “I won’t be composed down.”

Says I, firmly, still a-keepin’ between him and her, and still a-layin’ holt of
him, “You must, Josiah!”

“I tell you I _won’t_, Samantha! I’ll let you know,” says he, a-shakin’ his fist
at her powerful, “I’ll let you know that you have run me over with twin for the
last time; I’ll let you know that I have been trampled over, and eat up by cows,
and roosted on, and slept with for the last time,” says he, shakin’ both fists
at at her. “You have neighbored your last neighbor with me, and I’ll let you
know you have.”

Says I, “Josiah Allen, I tell you to compose yourself down.”

“And I tell you again, Samantha, that I _won’t_!”

But I could see that his voice was sort ’o lowerin’ down, and I knew the worst
was over. I spoke sort ’o soothin’ly to him, and told him, in tender axents,
that he shouldn’t be neighbored with another mite; and finally, I got him
quieted down. But he looked bad in the face, and his sithes was fearful. My
feelin’s for that man give me strength to give Miss Spink a piece of my mind. My
talk was calm, but to the purpose, and very smart. It was a very little on the
allegory way. I told her jest how I felt about mejum courses; how sweet and
happyfyin’ it was to pursue ’em. Says I, “Fire is first-rate, dretful comfortin’
for warmin’ and cookin’ purposes; too much fire is bad, and leads to
conflagrations, martyrs, and etcetery. Water is good; too much leads to
drowndin’, dropsy, and-so-forth. Neighborin’ is good, first-rate, if follered
mejumly. Too much neighborin’ leads to weariness, anarky, kicks, black and blue
pardners, and almost delerious Josiahs.”

As quick as I mentioned the word kick, I see a change in Josiah’s face; he begun
to shake his fist, and act; I see he was a-growin’ wild agin; Miss Spink see it
too, and she and her sister fled. That very afternoon Josiah went to Jonesville
and served some papers onto ’em. They hadn’t made no bargain, for any certain
time, so by losin’ all his rent, he got rid of ’em before the next afternoon.
And says he to me that night, as he sot by the fire rubbin’ some linement onto
his legs where he had been kicked, says he to me:

“Samantha, if any human bein’ ever comes to rent that house of me, I’ll shoot
’em down, jest as I would a mushrat.”

[Illustration: JOSIAH’S VOW.] I knew he had lost over two hundred dollars by
’em, and been kicked so lame that he couldn’t stand on his feet hardly. I knew
that man had been neighbored almost into his grave, but I couldn’t set by calmly
and hear him talk no such wickedness, and so says I:

“Josiah Allen, can’t you ever learn to take a mejum course? You needn’t go round
huntin’ up renters, or murder ’em if they come nigh you.” Says I, “You must
learn to be more moderate and mejum.”

But he kep’ right on, a-pourin’ out the linement on his hand, and rubbin’ it
onto his legs, and stuck to it to the last. Says he, “I’d shoot him down, jest
as I would a mushrat; and there hain’t a law in the land but what would bear me
out in it.”

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

MORALIZIN’ AND EPISODIN’. Anybody would have thought that this episode (Spink
episode) would have sickened Josiah Allen of launchin’ out into any more
headwork, and tryin’ to made money on a speck. But if you’ll believe it,
Jonathan Spink’ses folks hadn’t been gone three weeks—for Kitty come back the
day after Spink’ses folks left, and she only stayed with us two weeks that time,
havin’ promised to stay a spell to Thomas Jefferson’s, and it was only a few
days after she went—and then I knew by Josiah’s legs—the black-and-blue spots
hadn’t begun to wear off; they had just begun to turn yaller—and then I knew by
my head-dress, too—when that man come home from Jonesville one night, cross as a
bear. I said I knew by my new head-dress. I well remember I had wore it that
afternoon for the first time, some expectin’ very genteel company, and wantin’
to look well. But the company didn’t come, and Kellup Cobb did. He come to bring
home a cent he had borrowed the night before at the missionary meetin’ to send
for his annual gift to the heathens. And he noticed my new cap in a minute. He
looked witherin’ and overbearin’ at it, and in a sort of a back-handed,
underground way, that I can’t bear, nor never could, he begun to throw hints at
me about it. About married women and members of meetin’-housen spendin’ their
money in such extravagance, when they might spend it in spreadin’ the Gospel in
benighted lands—and about how awful wicked it was to be so dressy—and et cetery,
et cetery. My cap _wuz_ middlin’-foamin’ lookin’. I couldn’t deny it, and didn’t
try to. It wuzn’t what you might call over and above dressy, but it was
handsome, and _very_ nice. The ribbin on it cost me 18 pence per yard, and the
cap contained two yards and a half; it was _very_ nice. But none too good for
me, my Josiah said. He is what you may call a close man at a bargain. (Tight,
would perhaps be a better word to express his situation.) But he loves dearly to
see me look beautiful. And he is very gay in his tastes; red is his favorite
color, and the more fiery shades of yellow; he would be glad to see me dressed
in these tints all the time. But I don’t encourage him in the idee. Not that I
think one color is wickeder than another, but they don’t seem to be becomin’ to
my style and age. Now this new head dress, I had picked it out and selected it
with my pardner by my side, and he whispered to me loud, as I was a-selectin’ of
it: “If you have _got_ to have a new cap, Samantha, for mercy’s sake get a red
one.”

But I whispered to him that I should look like a fool with a red cap on, and to
keep still. [Illustration: THE NEW HEAD-DRESS.] And then he whispered agin, in a
more anxious tone: “Wall then, for pity’s sake do get yeller, or sunthin’ that
has got a little color to it. Black! black! the whole of the time; you look jest
like a mourner.”

I had a black one on my hand at that time, admirin’ of it, and most settled on
it. But Josiah’s mean was such as I was a-settlin’, that I, as a devoted
pardner, and a woman of principle, compromised the matter with Josiah and Duty,
by purchasin’ one trimmed with a sort of a pinky, lilock color. It was very
becomin’ to me. But I won’t deny, as a woman who is bred to tellin’ the truth,
and not gin to deceit and coverin’ up,—I won’t deny that the first time I tried
that head-dress on after I got home, I had my curious feelin’s. I thought mebby
it was wrong for me to buy such costly ribbin, and so much of it. And then I
worried about the color, too. Thinkses I, mebby it is too young for me; too
young for a woman who owns a bald-headed pardner and a grandchild, and who has
but few teeth left in her head. My conscience is a perfect old tyrent, and jest
drives me round more’n half the time. I am willin’ to be drove by her as fur as
I ort to be. But sometimes, I declare for’t, I get so tuckered out with her
drivin’s, that I get fairly puzzled, and wonderin’ whether she knows herself all
the time jest what she is about; whether she is certain that she is always a
drivin’ me in the right road; and how fur I ort to be drove by her, and when,
and where to; and whether I ort to let my intellect and common sense lay holt
and help her drive. As I say, she run me considerable of a run on this head-
dress. I had a awful time of it, and won’t deny it, and I was on the very pint
several times of carryin’ it back. But when Kellup come right out, and gin such
powerful hints about it; about extravagance, and wickedness, and vanity; and
about married wimmen settin’ sinful patterns to them outside of meetin’-housen,
and that it didn’t look likely, and et cetery, et cetery, and so forth.
[Illustration: APPLE BLOSSOMS.] Why, as he went on a hintin’ so powerful strong,
and givin’ such burnin’ glances onto that head-dress, why, I sort o’ sprunted
up, and begun to see things on the other side plainer than I had seen ’em. Then
says I, as the eyes of my specks rested upon the apple-boughs that filled the
north kitchen winder with a glow of rosiness and sweetness:

“The Lord don’t seem to think as you do, Kellup. Jest see how He has dressed up
that old apple-tree.” Says I: “No fashionable belle in New York or Paris village
can ever hope to wear garments so daintily fine and sweet. No queen nor empress
ever wore or ever will wear for their coronation robes such splendid and
gorgeous raiment as the common spring suit of that old apple-tree.”

[Illustration: HOW IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.] Says Kellup, holdin’ his head well up in
the air, and drawin’ his lips down with a very self-righteous drawin’, that I
knew meant head-dress, though he didn’t come right out and say it:

“I despise and detest the foolishness of display. There is more important and
serious business on earth than dressin’ up to look nice.”

“That is so,” says I, “that is jest as true as you live. Now that old apple
tree’s stiddy business and theme is to make sweet, juicy apples; but at the same
time that don’t hender her from dressin’ up, and lookin’ well. The Lord might
have made the apples grow in rows right round the trunk from top to bottom, with
no ‘foolishness of display’ of the rosy coloring and perfume—but He didn’t. He
chose in His wisdom, which it is not for you or me to doubt, to make it a glory
and a delight to every beholder. So beautiful that the birds sail and sing with
very joy in and out of the sweet branches, and the happy bees hum delightedly
about the honey-laden cells, and she whose name was once Smith, has been made
happy as a queen all day long, by jest lookin’ out of that window down into the
fragrant, rosy depths of sweetness and light.”

“Wall,” says Kellup, lookin’ keen at my head-dress, “I don’t consider it likely,
anyway, to spend so much time a dressin’ up—it is a shiftless waste of time,
anyway.”

“Why,” says I; for the more he scolded me, the plainer I see the other side of
things. So curious are human bein’s constituted and sot. [Illustration: HARD AT
IT.] “Nater has always been considered likely—I never heard a word against her
character, and she is stiddy minded, too, and hard workin’. She works hard,
Nater does. She works almost beyond her strength sometimes. She has sights of
work on her hands all the hull time, and she has a remarkable knack of turnin’
off tremendous day’s works. And I never in my hull life heard her called
shiftless or slack. But what a case she is to orniment herself off; to rag out
and show herself in so many different colors. And if she feels better to be
dressed up and fixed off kinder pretty while she’s to work, I don’t know whose
business it is. I never was no case myself to dress up in white book muslin, or
pink silk, or bobonet lace, or anything of that kind, when I was a doin’ hard
jobs, such as makin’ soap, and runnin’ candles, and cleanin’ house, and
etcetery. And when I have got to be out in the rain when it is all drabbly and
muddy, why I jest wrap up and look like fury. But she don’t. No! I have known
her time and agin to tie the most gorgeous and shinin’ rainbow round her old
waist and jest lay herself out to look foamin’ and dressy, right there in the
rain. “It beats all how she does fix herself up. But it don’t hurt my feelin’s
at all. I never was a mite jealous of other females lookin’ better than I did.
The better they look, the better I enjoy lookin’ at ’em. And if Nater can dress
up better and look better while she is a doin’ her spring work and all her other
hard jobs than I can, good land! how simple it would be in me to blame her.
There is where I use such cast-iron reason. You don’t ketch me a blamin’ other
folks for their little personal ways and habits that don’t do nobody no hurt.
She is well off, Nater is, and able to do as she is a mind to; she has got
plenty to do with; she don’t have to scrimp herself to buy flowers, and tossels,
and rainbows. If she did, I shouldn’t approve of it in her, not at all. I
despise folks goin’ beyond their means to look pretty. I think it is wicked, and
the height of dretfulness. But if them that are abundantly able and willin’ want
to look nice, I say, let ’em look.”

And I cast a conscious and sort of a modest glance up into the lookin’-glass
that hung over the table. I could jest ketch a glimpse of my head-dress, and I
see that its strings floated out noble, and I see at the same glance that he was
still lookin’ witherin’ at it. But I didn’t care a mite for it. I was jest
filled with my subject (that side of it, for every subject has got more’n a
dozen sides to it), and the more he cast them witherin’ looks onto me the more I
wuzn’t withered—but soared up in mind, and grew eloquent. And I went on
fearfully eloquent about Nater, and the way she fixed herself up perfectly
beautiful—right when she was a workin’ the hardest. “Why,” says I, “when she
goes way down into the depths of the under world to make iron, and coal, and
salt, and things that has got to be made, and she has got to make ’em—why, she
can’t be contented way down there in the dark, all alone by herself, without
deckin’ herself off with diamonds, and all sorts of precious gems, and holdin’
up wreaths of shinin’ crystal, enameled fern fronds, and hangin’ clusters snowy
white, and those shinin’ with every dazzlin’ hue. “And way down on the ocean
floor, fifteen miles or so down below, where she would naturally expect nobody
would come a visatin’—why, way down there, where she must know that there hain’t
no company liable to drop in on her onexpected, yet every minute of the time she
is all ornimented off with pearls, and opal-tinted shells, daintest green and
crimson seagrass, gem-like purple astreas, wonderful pink and white coral
wreaths—all strange and lovely blossoms of the sea. “What tongue can tell the
wonders of the beauty she arrays herself with way down there in the dark alone.
How every little bud of beauty is wreathed around with other marvels of
loveliness—how all about one tiny little bit of a blossom will be twined other
wonderful little flowerin’ vines, starred with crystal bells. “No tongue can
ever describe it—not mine, certainly, for I say but little myself, and that
little is far too small to express these wonders of beauty. [Illustration:
NATURE’S OCEAN BOUDOIR.] “And then right round here, when she is to work right
here in our fields, doin’ her common run of hard work—such as makin’ wheat, and
oats, and other grain. No matter how hot the weather is, or muggy; no matter
whether she is behindhand with her work, and in a awful hurry—she always finds
time to scatter along in the orderly ranks of the grain, wild red poppies and
blue-eyed asters. And I never in my life, and Josiah never did, see her ever
make a solid ear of corn without she hung on top of it a long silk tossel. And I
don’t believe she ever made a ton of hay in the world, if she had her own way
about it, but what she made it perfectly gay with white daisies and butter-cups.
[Illustration: NATURE’S WORK.] “And all the gardens of the world she glorifies,
and all the roads, and hedges, and lanes, and by-ways. No matter how long and
crooked they are, or how tejus, she scatters blossoms of brightness and beauty
over them all. “And clear up on the highest mountains, under the shadow of the
everlastin’ snows, she will stop to lay a cluster of sweet mountain anemones and
Alpine roses on the old bosom—for she is a gettin’ considerable along in years,
Nater is. Not that I say it in a runnin’ way at all, or spiteful, or mean. But I
s’pose she is older than we have any idee of—as old agin as folks call her. But
she acts young, and looks so. She holds her age remarkable, as has been often
remarked about a person whose name was once Smith. “Why, she acts fairly frisky
and girlish sometimes. Way down in the lowest valleys, down by the most hidden
brook-side, she will sit down to weave together the most lovely and coquetish
bunches of fern and grasses, and scarlet and golden wild flowers, and deck
herself up in ’em like a bride of 16. You never ketched her runnin’ in debt for
a lot of stuff though—her principles are too firm. But she goes on makin’ beauty
and gladness wherever she goes, and lookin’ handsome, and if it had been wicked
the Lord wouldn’t have let her go on in it. He could have stopped her in a
minute if He had wanted to. She does jest as He tells her to, and always did.
“And,” says I, with considerable of a stern look onto Kellup, “if Nater—if she
who understands the unwritten language of God, that we can’t speak yet—if she,
whose ways seem to us to be a revelation of that will of the Most High—if she
can go on wreathing herself in beauty, I don’t think we should be afraid of
gettin’ holt of all we can of it—of all lovely things. And I don’t think,” says
I, givin’ a sort of a careless glance up into the lookin’-glass, “that there
should be such a fuss made by the world at large about my head-dress.”

“But,” says Kellup, a groanin’ loud and violent, “it is the wickedness of it I
look at. To follow the vile example of the rich. And oh! how wicked rich folks
be. How hard-hearted, how unprincipled, and vile.” And agin he groaned, deep.
Says I, “Don’t groan so, Kellup,” for it was truly skairful to hear him. Says
he, “I will groan!” Says he, “The carryin’s on and extravagance of the rich is
enough to make a dog groan.”

I see I couldn’t stop his groanin’, but I went on a talkin’ reasonable, in hopes
I could quell him down. Says I, “There is two sides to most everything, Kellup,
and some have lots of sides. That is what makes the world such a confusin’ place
to live in. If things and idees didn’t have but one side to ’em, we could grab
holt of that side, hold it close, and be at rest. “But they do. And you must
look on both sides of things before you make a move. You mustn’t confine
yourself to lookin’ on jest one side of a subject, for it hain’t reasonable.”

“I won’t try to look on both sides,” says he with a bitter look. “That is what
makes folks onsettled and onstabled in their views, and liberal. But I won’t. I
am firm and decided. I am satisfied to look on one side of a subject—on the good
old orthodox side. You won’t ketch me a whifflin’ round and lookin’ on every
side of a idee.”

“Wall,” says I, calmly, for to convince, and not to anger, is ever my theme and
purpose. And knowin’ that to the multitude truth is most often palatable if
presented in a parabolical form, and has been for centuries often imbibed by
them in that way, entirely unbeknown to them. And knowin’ that the little scenes
of daily life are as good to wrap round morals and cause ’em to be swallowed
down unbeknowin’, as peach preserves are to roll round pills, I went on and
says:

“If you won’t look on only one side of a subject, Kellup, you may find yourself
in as curious a place as Melvin Case was last fall. His wife told it herself to
Miss Gansey, and Miss Gansey told the editor of the Augurs’es wife, and the
editor of the Augurs’es wife told Miss Mooney, and she told the woman’s first
husband’s mother-in-law that told me. It come straight. “It was a very curious
situation, and the way on’t was: Melvin Case, as you know, married Clarinda
Piller of Piller P’int, down on the Lake Shore road. Wall, they had been married
23 years and never had no childern, and last fall they had a nice little boy. He
was a welcome child, and weighed over 9 pounds. “Wall, Malvin thought the world
of his wife, and bein’ very tickled about the boy, and feelin’ very affectionate
towards his wife at the time, he proposed at once that they should call him
after her maiden name—Piller. Of course she give her willin’ consent, and they
was both highly tickled. But you see, bein’ blinded by affection and happiness,
they didn’t look on only one side of the idee, and they never studied on how the
two names was a goin’ to look when they was put together, till after he had
wrote it down in the Bible; and then he paused, with his pen in his hand, and
looked up perfectly horrified at his wife, who was holdin’ the baby in her arms
and lookin’ over his shoulder, and she looked perfectly dumbfoundered at him,
for they see it looked awful—Piller Case. [Illustration: BABY PILLER CASE.] “Now
you are lookin’ at one side of the subject, but there is another side to it,
Kellup,—there is as sure as you live and breathe. “God knows too much cannot be
said or sung about the duty the rich owe to the poor. They cannot study too
correctly, and follow too closely the pattern that He, the loving Elder Brother,
set them. He who was so tender in His compassion; so helpful and thoughtful to
the claims of the poor and humble. But charity is a big word, and it has more
than one side to it. It means charity to the poor, under whose lowly roofs He
once entered, a child of the poor, and so consecrated them honorable for all
time. Those who were His closest friends through His toilsome earthly life;
those whom He loved first, and loved last; cared for even in that supreme moment
of His most triumphant and glorious ignominy. Shall not His followers forever
love and bless those He hallowed by His tender care in such a moment? Yes,
charity to the poor first. But we mustn’t stop there, Kellup. We may want to set
right down in front of that side of the word, and stay there. But we mustn’t. If
we want to view this heavenly word on every side we must walk round on the other
side of it, and see that it means, too, charity to the rich. A higher, subtler
quality of charity it calls for in us than the other. “For I can tell you,
Kellup, some folks say it is a tough job for one to keep a sweet, charitable,
loving spirit towards them that are richer, more successful, and happier than
they be. Hard for ’em to rejoice over the good fortune of the great. Hard for
’em to keep from judgin’ them severely—from feelin’ envious over the good
fortune they cannot share. [Illustration: FEELIN’ CHRISTIAN.] “We are exhorted
to feel sorry for the man who falls down and breaks his leg. We are exhorted to
feel christian toward that humble man. But though there hain’t much said on the
other side of the subject, I think it is enough sight harder to feel christian
towards that man when we are a layin’ flat on the ice, or slippery sidewalk, and
he is a standin’ up straight. “It is easy to deceive ourselves; easy to give
very big, noble names to very small emotions. And if we feel uncomfortable to
see some one else who has always stood on the same level with ourselves suddenly
lifted above us,—no matter how worthily he may have earned that more exalted
station,—we may call that uncomfortable feelin’ any name we please. We may call
it a holy horror of worldly-mindedness—a hauntin’ fear lest he be jeopardizin’
his immortal soul, by settin’ up on that loftier spear. And mebby it is. I
hain’t a goin’ to come right out and say that it hain’t. But I will say this,
for there hain’t no harm in it, and it can’t make no trouble. I will say that if
we feel this uncomfortable feelin’ we ort to keep a close watch of our symptoms.
For though that gripin’ pain in the left side may be a religious pain, yet there
is a possibility that it may be envy. And if it is, it requires fur different
treatment. And it may be a self-righteous, Pharasaical feelin’ that our Lord
seemed to hate worst of any feelin’ we could feel. “I tell you it requires the
very closest dognosing (to use a high learnt medical phrase) to get the symptoms
exactly right, and see exactly what aches we are a achin’. For the heart that we
imagine is a gripin’ and a achin’ at sinful worldly-mindedness, may be a achin’
with the consumin’ fever of spite, and envy and revenge,—the heart-burnin’
desire and determination to bring the loftier and the nobler down in some way on
a level with ourselves, if not by fair means, with the foul ones of malice and
slander and lies. “I don’t say it is so; but I say, let us be careful, and let
us be charitable to all,—the rich and the poor,—for charity, Kellup, like the
new linen ulsters, covers a multitude of sinners. “Now,” says I, metaforin’ a
little, as I might have known I should before I got through, “now if I was a
woman, and should say that to wear diamonds was wicked, or to live in a
beautiful home full of books and pictures, and all the means of ease and culture
was an abomination to me, and wicked, when I was hankerin’ in the very depths of
my soul to be wicked in jest that way, if I only had the wherewith to be wicked
with, why, that holy horror I professed would be vain in me; empty as soundin’
brass and tinglin’ symbols. Let us be honest and true first, and then put on
more ornamental christianity afterwards; there hain’t no danger of our gettin’
any too much of it, that is, of the right kind. Envy and hypocracy and cant look
worse to me than diamonds; and I would wear the diamonds as quick agin—if I got
the chance.”

Kellup didn’t look a mite convinced. But I kep’ right on, for though I am a
woman that says but little, yet when I begin to convince anybody I always want
to finish up the job in a handsome, thorough way, and then I felt real eloquent;
and I tell you it is hard, even for a close-mouthed woman, it is hard for ’em
when they feel as eloquent as I did then to keep from swingin’ right out and
talkin’, and I didn’t try to stop myself; I kep’ right on, and says I:

“It is a mistake in you and in me if we think that every rich person is
necessarily a hard-hearted one; if we think a tender heart cannot beat jest as
warmly and truly aginst a ermine robe, as a shabby overcoat; aginst a rich
boddist waist, as a calico bask. There are little, stingy, narrow, contracted
souls in every station-house of life, high ones and low ones; and there are
loving, generous ones, visey versey, and the same. And God bless those tender
hearts where-ever they are; those who in lofty places organize the great
charities whose benefactions bless the nations in famine, in war, and in the
calamity of national sickness and distress. And Heaven bless the lowly toilers
of life, whose humble gifts out of their scanty means are in God’s sight equally
as great. “The little blue potato-blossom laid upon the pillow of the sick by
the child of poverty—we think the perfume of that little odorless flower will
rise to Heaven as sweet as the most royal blossom given by the children of
kings. The blossoms of true charity are all sweet in Heaven’s sight.”

[Illustration: “BLESSINGS ON THEM ALL!”]

And says I, lookin’ up to the ceilin’ in a almost rapped eloquence of mean, and
a lofty fervency and earnestness of axent:

“Heaven bless all the generous, loving hearts that beat under any and every
colored robe; under the shabby garb of poverty; the somber hue of some
consecrated sisterhood of compassion; under the quaint Quaker garb, or the
bright silks of the Widder Albert’s generous daughters; those who
conscientiously wear sober clothing, and those who jest as innocently wear
brighter apparel. Heaven bless them all; the gray-robed sisterhood of Mercy,
God’s dove-colored angels, who lean over the beds of the sick and the sorrowing,
and whose shadows falling by the beds of pain the sad-eyed soldiers kiss;
Catholic or Protestant, whatever their creed, they have the divinest gift of the
three—the divine gift of Charity. God made them all—the rose and the gray; the
blue sky, the rainbow, and the soft shadow of the twilight clouds. He made the
earth for His beloved; nothing is too good for them, or too beautiful. And why
should one color boast over another, as being purer-minded, and less wicked?”

[Illustration: A HEAVENLY MESSENGER.] I had been very eloquent, and felt
considerable eloquent still, but happenin’ to let the eye of my speck fall for a
minute on Kellup, I see by the awful unbelievin’ look on his face that I had got
to simplify it down to his comprehension. I see that he did not understand my
soarin’ ideas as I would wish ’em to be understood. Not that I blamed him for
it. Good land! a tow string hain’t to blame for not bein’ made a iron spike. But
at the same time it is bad and wearisome business for the one who attempts to
use that tow string for a spike—tries to drive it into the solid wall of
argument and clinch a fact with it. I had said a good deal about beauty, but it
seemed as if I wanted to say sunthin’ more, and I went on and said it:

“Some folks seem to be afraid of beauty; as ’fraid of it as if it was a bear.
They seem to be more afraid of lettin’ a little beauty into their lives than
they be of lettin’ the same amount of wickedness in. You would think a man was
awful simple who would spend his hull strength in puttin’ up coverin’s to his
windows to keep out the sunshine and fresh air, and not pay any attention to the
obnoxious creeters, wild-cats, burglars, and etcetery that was comin’ right into
the open front-door. And it hain’t a mite more simple than it is for them, for
they take so much pains a puttin’ up iron bars (as it were) across the windows
of their souls to keep beauty and brightness and innocent recreation out of it,
that they have no time to see how uncharitableness and envy and malice and
hatred and a hull regiment of just such ugly creeters are troopin’ right into
the front-door unbeknown to them. [Illustration: The wreathed Spear]

“They seem to take a pride in despisin’ beauty, as if it was a merit in them to
look down upon, and feel hauty and contemptuous toward the divinest and
loveliest thing God ever made. I don’t feel so, Kellup. I don’t think it is
wicked for me to lay holt of all the beauty and happiness that I can,
consistently with my duty to humanity and Josiah. “There are some things that
must be done first of all. We must hold the spear firm and upright. We must
carry our principles stiddy and firm. But we have a perfect right and privilege
to wreath that spear and them principles with all the blossoms of brightness and
innocent happiness we can possibly lay holt of. Them is my opinions. Howsomever,
everybody to their own mind.”

“Beauty the divinest thing God ever made!” says Kellup in a hauty, ironical
tone. “How dare you be so wicked, Josiah Allen’s wife? I call it awful wicked to
talk so.”

Says I, “I don’t believe anything is wicked that lifts us right up nearer to
Heaven. I don’t mean to be wicked.”

“Wall, you be,” says he, speakin’ up sharp. “Worshipin’ beauty, worshipin’ the
creature instead of the creator.”

Says I, “Can you tell me, Kellup, what that spirit of beauty is, that you are so
sot aginst?” Says I, feelin’ more and more eloquent as I dove further and
further into the depths of the subject than I had doven—and the more I went on
about it the more carried away I wuz and lost, till before I had gone on 2
minutes I was entirely by the side of myself, and carried completely out of
Kellup Cobb’s presence, out of Josiah Allen’s kitchen, out into the mighty waste
of mystery that floats all round Jonesville and the world:

“What is this spirit of beauty—there is something, some hidden spirit, some soul
of inspiration, in all beautiful things, pictures, poetry, melody—a spirit that
forever eludes us, flies before us, and yet smiles down into our souls forever
with haunting, glorious eyes. What is this wonderful spirit, this insperation
that thrills us so in all sweetest and saddest melodies, in lovely landscapes,
in the soft song of the summer wind, and the mournful refrain of ocean waves, in
sunset, and the weird stillness of a starry midnight? That thrills us so in all
glorified legends of heroism—and in that divinest poem of a noble life.—That
haunts us, and so fills our souls with longing that sometimes we imagine we can
catch a glimpse of it in the clear look of some inspired eye; but almost e’er we
behold it, it is gone. Some fleetin’ echo of whose voice we fancy we have caught
in the lofty refrain of some heavenly melody—but, e’er our soul could hardly
listen, the sweet strain was drowned in the discord of human voices. Ah!
sometimes the veil has seemed but thin between us, as we stood for brief,
blissful moments on the mountain tops of our best and noblest emotions, so
transparent, and glowing with inner brightness, that we could almost behold the
face of an angel behind the shining barriers. But the mists swept coldly up, and
the sweet face was lost in the cloudy, earthly vapors. “If we could reach it, if
we could once reach out our longing arms, and touch that wonderful, illusive
soul of beauty, if we could hold it with our weak, mortal grasp, and look upon
it face to face—can you tell me, Kellup, what it would be? Can you tell me how
pure, and holy, and divine a shape it would be? The Ideal of Beauty that forever
rises before us—this longing for perfection implanted in our souls? We cannot
believe by bad spirits, but by the Ever Good. This ideal that every poet and
artist soul has longed for, prayed for, but never reached—this ideal of purity
which we strive to mould in clay; poor, crumblin’, imperfect clay, that will
not, however earnestly we toil, take the clear shape of our dreams. Can you tell
me, Kellup, that it is not the longing of the mortal for the immortal, the
deathless cry of the human for the divine? “To me, it is the surest proof of
immortality. For we know that our God is not cruel, and we cannot think He would
hold out to us a lovely gift only to mock us with glimpses of its glory, and
then withdraw it from us forever. “And this ideal of perfection that we have so
striven and prayed to realize—perhaps these longings and strivings are
perfecting that image in our lives, unbeknown to us; and when the clay that
wraps it round drops off, shall we behold it in glad wonder in the land of the
King? Shall we see that the dull stroke of care and the keen blow of suffering
helped most to mould it into beauty? Surely, surely, He will one day give the
desire of our souls. Surely there is a land of immortal purity, immortal beauty,
where to the souls of all who truly aspire the dim shadow light of our hope will
be lost in the bright glory of fulfillment.”

Says Kellup, castin’ the witherin’est look onto my head-dress that he had cast
onto it, and clingin’ close to his old idee, as close as a idee ever was clung
to, says he, comin’ out plain:

“That head-dress is a shame, and a disgrace. You wouldn’t ketch me in no such
extravagance. The money had better have been took and distributed round amongst
the poorer classes in the country.”

I don’t s’pose I ort to, and I don’t know exactly how it happened that I did,
but I won’t deny it, that comin’ down so awful sudden off of the height of
eloquence I had been a soarin’ on, bein’ brought down so awful short and sort o’
onexpected, it did, and I won’t deny it, it did, for as much as a minute and a
half, make me mad. It sort o’ jarred me all over, and I spoke up sharp, and says
I:

“There are exceptions to every ruler, as scholars have always said. But as a
general thing, the people who deny themselves all the beauty and brightness of
life, are the very ones who deny it to others. Those who talk the most about
others’ extravagance, and what great things they would do if they was in other
folks’es places, are the very ones who, if they wuz there, wouldn’t do nothin’.
It is the tight ones of earth who talk the most about looseness: how awful loose
they would be under certain circumstances. But I believe, and Josiah duz, that
they wouldn’t under the very loosest circumstances ever be loose, but would
always be tight. And them who says the least often does the most. Them who scold
the least about other folks’es duty, often do their own duty the best. Curious.
But so it is. [Illustration: A Guiding Hand]

“And those who love to put beauty into their own lives, are often the ones who
love to bless other lives—are the ones whose hearts ache at the pleading of a
sorrowful eye—whose hearts thrill clear to their center at the voice of a hungry
child. “And if the heart is thrilled in the right way, that thrill always
trembles right down into the portmoney, and trembles it open, and jars the money
right out of it. The money that will make that hungry cry change into a thankful
one, and that wistful look change into a rejoicin’ one. “Why,” says I in a
earnest, lofty tone, wantin’ to convince him, “look at that female I have been a
talkin’ about; look at Nater. See what she duz. You have had to give up that no
other female ever loved the beautiful as she duz. And you have got to give up
that no other female was ever so great-hearted, so compassionate and generous.”

And havin’ by this time got all over my little temporary madness, I went on agin
about her, beautiful. Somehow I always do talk eloquent about Nater. I guess it
is because I think so much of her. Says I: “No tenderer care does she give to
the monarch on his throne than she gives to the little bare-foot peasant child,
or the little foolish sparrer. She takes no greater thought to guide the great
ship freighted with noble lives, and help her plow her way through the billows,
than she takes to guide the way of the sea-bird over the wild waters, or the
flight of the frightened northern birds fleeing southward through the trackless
sky before the snows. “Good to all, generous, helpful to all, patient to all.
And at the last she just opens her loving arms and gives rest to all, simple and
gentle, serf and monarch; to the prosperous and happy, and to all the heavy-
hearted, all the broken-hearted, all the worn, the defeated, the despairin’
souls; the saint and the sinner alike, without rebuking or questioning; she jest
reaches out her arms to them all, and gives them rest.”

Says Kellup: “I guess I’ll go out and look at Josiah’s new stun-bolt. I don’t
know but what I shall want to borry it bimeby to draw some stuns.”

And he started off—and I was glad he did. [Illustration]

JOSIAH UNDERTAKES MORE BUSINESS. Wall that was the very night, as I said, that
Josiah Allen come home so awful cross. And what under the sun ailed him I could
not imagine. He had been clever when he left home,—very; he had had a extra good
breakfast, and he was the picture of happiness; and his morals seemed stiddy and
firm. And comin’ off so sudden onto such fearful fractiousness, it worried me.
But little did I think he was plannin’ more head-work. If I had I should have
worried fur more. But he wuz. Old Ben Mandagool, a friend of Josiah’s, was
takin’ in boarders, and makin’ money by ’em. And that very day (unbeknown to me)
he had throwed them boarders, six of ’em, into Josiah’s face, and the pile of
money he had made by ’em, and twitted him that if it wasn’t for his wife he
could make jest as much. Old Mandagool knew well how I felt about takin’ in
boarders; he knew I was principled against it, and sot. Mandagool misuses his
wife shamefully; makes a perfect underlin’ of her; works her down to skin and
bone; they don’t live happy together at all. And he seems to be envious of
anybody that does live agreeable with their pardner, and loves to break it up.
And so it went on for a number of days; he a twittin’ Josiah how if it wuzn’t
for his wife he could have his way, and make money, (and Josiah loves to have
his own way dearly,) and throwin’ them half a dozen boarders into his face, and
it hain’t no wonder that Josiah felt hurt. And it hain’t no wonder, constituted
as men be, that he was exceedingly cross to me. But knowin’ how cast-iron my
mind was when it was made up, he never let on what ailed him. And I was skairt
most to death to see him look so mauger, and act so restless and oneasy, and
crosser’n any bear out of a circus. How strange and mysterious things be in this
world. Lots and lots of things we can see the effects of,—powerful effects,—but
can’t ketch a glimpse of the causes. I could see the crossness, and bear it; but
what the cause of it was, was concealed from me by a impenetrable vail. And I,
jest as poor, blind mortal bein’s will do, when they stand in front of
mysteries, and don’t want to own they are puzzled by ’em, would make up reasons
in my own mind, and call ’em facts. Thinkses I to myself: he is a enjoyin’ poor
health, or else he is a gettin’ back-slid. And one day I says to him, says I:

“Josiah Allen, what is the matter with you? You don’t act like the same man you
did several days ago. I am goin’ to steep up some catnip and thoroughwort tea,
and see if it won’t make you feel better,—and some boneset.”

“I don’t want none of your boneset and catnip.”

Says I: “You know, Josiah Allen, that you are enjoyin’ very poor health. You
enjoy as bad agin health as you did along in the winter.”

[Illustration: “WHAT’S THE MATTER, JOSIAH?”]

[Illustration: “WHAT’S THE MATTER, JOSIAH?”]

“My health is well enough,” says he sort o’ surly like. “Wall then,” says I in
still more anxious tones, “if it hain’t your health that is a sufferin’, is it
your morals? Do they feel totterin’, Josiah? Tell your pardner how they feel.”

“Dummit, my morals feel all right.”

Says I sternly: “Stop that swearin’ instantly and to once.” And I went on in
reasonable tones: “If you hain’t enjoyin’ poor health, Josiah, and your morals
are firm, why is there such a change in your mean?” Says I: “Your mean don’t
look no more like your old one than if it belonged to another man.”

But instead of answerin’ my affectionate and anxious inquiries, he jumped up and
started for the barn. And so it went on for over 4 days; I a knowin’ sunthin’
ailed him, and couldn’t get him to tell; he a growin’ crosser and crosser, and
lookin’ maugerer and maugerer, and I a growin’ alarmed about him to that extent
that I knew not what to do. And finally one mornin’ to the breakfast table, I
says to him in tones that would be answered:

“Josiah Allen, you are carryin’ sunthin’ on your mind.” And says I firmly: “Your
mind hain’t strong enough to carry it alone; your pardner _must_ and _will_ help
you carry it.” He see determination in my eyebrow, and he finally up and told
me. How he was a hankerin’ to take in summer boarders; how he wanted to get back
the money he had lost in some way, and he knew there was piles and piles of
money to be made by it; and it was such pretty business, too,—nothin’ but fun to
take ’em in; anybody could take such perfect comfort with ’em, besides bein’ so
awful profitable; and knowin’ my principles rose up like cast-iron against the
idee, it was a wearin’ on him. I didn’t say nothin’. Some wimmen would have
throwed Jonathan Spink and his wife in her pardner’s face, and some wimmen would
have throwed the twin and the hull of the family. But I didn’t. I knew my
pardner was a sufferin’ fearfully, and my affection for him is like a ox’es, as
has been often remarked. No, I only said in a cold, cautious tone: “Will you
pass me the buckwheat-cakes, Josiah, and the syrup?”

But them words, them buckwheat-cakes, was only a vail (as it were) that I threw
over my feelin’s, tryin’ to hide ’em from my pardner. For oh! what a wild
commotion was goin’ on inside of me between my principles and my affection. And
of all the wars that ever devastated the world, that is the most fearful; though
it may be like many others, a silent warfare. Yes, when love—such a love as my
love for Josiah—and principles strong and hefty as my principles are, get to
fightin’ with each other, and kickin’ back and forth, and ragin’, and as I may
say, in a practical and figurative way, snortin’ and prancin’,—then ensues and
follers on a time long to be remembered. I was principled against takin’ in
summer boarders. I had seen ’em took in, time and agin, and seen the effects of
it, and I had said, and said calmly, that for people like us boarders was a
moth. I had said, and felt, that when a woman does her own housework it was all
she ort to do to take care of her own men folks, and her house, and housen
stuff, and common run of visitors,—and hired girls I was immovably sot against
from my birth. [Illustration: A POETICAL SIMELY.] Home seemed to me to be a
peaceful haven, jest large enough for two barks,—Josiah’s bark and my bark,—and
when foreign schooners (to foller up my poetical simely), when foreign schooners
and periogers sailed in, they generally proved to be ships of war, pirate fleets
stealin’ happiness and ease, and runnin’ up the skeliton of our dead joys at
their mast-heads. But I am a episodin’, and wanderin’ off into fields of poesy,
and to resoom and go on:

It would be in vain and only harrow up the reader’s feelin’s to tell how the
long struggle went on inside of my mind. But when I say that my pardner daily
grew before my eyes crosser and more fearfully cross, and mauger and more
awfully mauger, any female woman who has got a beloved companion, and a heart
inside of her breast bones, knows how the conflict ended. I yielded and gin in,
and the very day I gin my consent Josiah went and engaged ’em. He’d heard of ’em
from old Mandagool. He had boarded ’em the summer before, and he said they
wanted to get board again in Jonesville, though for some reason Mandagool didn’t
seem to want to board ’em himself. I thought to myself that looked squally. I
never liked old Mandagool,—not for a minute,—but I didn’t say a word. Neither
did I say anything when he told me there was 4 childern in the family that was a
comin’. No; I held firm. The job was undertook by me for the savin’ of my
pardner. I had undertook it in a martyr way, and I wuzn’t goin’ to spile the job
by murmerin’s and complainin’s. But oh! how animated Josiah Allen was the day he
come back from engagin’ of ’em. His appetite come back powerfully; he eat a
immense dinner. His crossness had disappeared, his affectionate demeanor all
returned; he would have acted as spoony as my big iron spoon if he had had so
much as a crumb of encouragement from me. But I didn’t encourage him. There was
a loftiness and majesty in my mean (caused by my principles) that almost awed
him. I looked first-rate, and acted so. But oh, how highlarious Josiah Allen
was! He was goin’ to make so much money by ’em. Says he, with a happy look:

[Illustration: JOSIAH’S IDEE.] “If a man loses money by one speck, he must
launch out into another speck and get it back again.” Says he: “I have tried to
make money easy, time and agin, and now I have hit the nail on the head; now I
can make up my loss, and get independently rich. Why, besides the pure happiness
we shall enjoy with ’em, the solid comfort, jest think of four dollars a week
for the man and his wife, and two dollars a piece for the childern. Less see,”
says he dreamily:

“Twice 4 is 8, and no orts to carry; 4 times 2 is 8, and 8 and 8 is 16. Sixteen
dollars a week. Why, Samantha,” says he, “that will support us; there hain’t no
need of our liftin’ our fingers agin, if we could only keep ’em right here with
us always.”

“Who is goin’ to cook and wait on ’em?” says I almost coldly. Not real cold, but
sort o’ coolish like. For I hain’t one when I tackle a cross to go carryin’ it
along groanin’ and cryin’ out loud all the way. No! if I can’t carry it
cheerfully, I’ll drop it. So, as I say, my tone wasn’t frigid, but sort o’ cool
like. “Who’ll wait on ’em?”

“Get a girl! get two girls! Think of sixteen dollars a week. You can keep a
variety of hired girls if you want to. Yes,” says he, with a blissful expression
and joyous axent, “besides the sweet rest and comfort we are a goin’ to take
with ’em, we can have everything else we want. Thank Heaven we have now got a
compeatency.”

“Wall,” says I in the same tones, or about the same,—coolish, but not
frigid,—“time will tell.”

[Illustration: EARLY BIRDS.] Wall, they come on a Monday mornin’, on the six
o’clock train. Josiah had to meet ’em to the depot, and he was so afraid he
should miss ’em, and somebody else would undermine him, and get ’em as boarders,
that he was up about three o’clock, and went out and milked by candle-light,
so’s to be sure and be there in season. And I had to get up and get his
breakfast before daylight, feelin’ like a fool, too, for he kep’ me awake all
night a’most, walkin’ round the house, and fallin’ over chairs and things,—sort
o’ gropin’ round,—lightin’ matches to look at the clock to see what time it was.
And if he said to me once, he said 30 times durin’ that night: “It would be jest
my luck to have somebody get in ahead of me to the cars, and undermind me at the
last minute, and get ’em away from me.”

Says I, in dry tones (not so dry as I had used, but dryish): “I guess there
won’t be no danger, Josiah.”

But the very last thing I heard him say, in fearful and fractious tones, as he
got into that democrat, was: “It would be jest like old Mandagool to undermind
me.”

Wall, about a quarter to 7 he driv up with ’em. A tall, spindlin’, waspish-
lookin’ woman, and 4 childern. The man, they said, wasn’t comin’ till Saturday
night. I thought the woman had a singular look to her when I first see her, and
so did the oldest boy, who was about 13 years old. I thought he looked dretful
white in the face, and sort o’ strange like. He looked like his ma, only he was
fleshy,—dretful sort o’ fleshy,—flabby like. And as they walked up from the
gate, side by side, I thought I never in my hull life see a waspisher and
spindlener woman, or a curiouser lookin’ couple. The other 3 childern that come
behind seemed to be pretty much of a age, and looked healthy, and full of the
old Harry, as we found out afterwards they indeed was. Wall, I had a hard tussle
of it through the day to cook and do for ’em. Their appetites was tremenjous,
specially the woman and the oldest boy. They wasn’t healthy appetites. I could
see that in a minute. Their eyes would look holler and hungry, and they would
look voraciously at the empty deep dishes and tureens, after they had eat ’em
all empty,—eat enough for 4 men. Why, it did beat all. Josiah looked at me in
silent wonder and dismay, as he see the vittles disappeer before that woman and
boy. The other three childern eat about as common healthy childern do,—each of
’em about twice what Josiah and me did. But there wasn’t nothin’ mysterious
about them. But the woman and boy made me feel curious, curiouser than I had
ever felt, for truly I thought to myself if their legs and arms hain’t holler,
how do they hold it. It was to me a new and interesting spectacle, to be studied
over and filosofied upon. But to Josiah it was a canker, as I see the very first
meal. I could see by the looks of his mean that them two appetites was sunthin’
he hadn’t reckoned and calculated upon. And I could see plain, havin’ watched
the changes of my pardner’s mean as close as astronomers watch the moon, I could
see that them two appetites was a wearin’ on him. Wall, I thought mebby they was
kinder starved out, comin’ right from a city boardin’-house, and a few of my
good meals would quell ’em down. [Illustration: OUR BOARDERS.] But no, instead
of growin’ lighter them two appetites of their’n seemed, if possible, to grow
consuminer and consuminer, though I cooked lavish and profuse, as I always did.
They devoured everything before ’em, and looked hungry and wistful at the plates
and table-cloth. Josiah looked on in perfect agony I knew, though he didn’t say
nothin’ (he is very close). And it seemed so awfully mysterious to me. I would
get so lost reasonin’ and felosifyin’ on it; whether their legs was holler or
not holler; and if they was holler, how they could walk round on ’em; and if
they wasn’t holler, where the vittles went to. Why, studyin’ so deep into it,
bringin’ all the deep scientific facts I could think on to bear onto it, I don’t
know but I should have gone ravin’ distracted if she hadn’t herself up and told
me what the matter was. They had got tape-worms—she and the oldest boy; immense
ones, so the doctor said, and they had to eat to satisfy ’em. That explained it,
and I felt relieved. And I told Josiah, for I love that man, and love to happify
him when I possibly can. But if you’ll believe it, that man was mad; and he
vowed he would charge extra for ’em. It was after we went to bed I told him, and
I had to talk low, for their room was right over our’n. Says I, in a low but
firm whisper:

“Don’t you do no such thing, Josiah Allen. Do you realize how it would look;
what a sound it would have to community?”

“Wall,” he hollered out, “do you s’pose I am goin’ to board all the tape-worms
in the world free of expense? Do you s’pose I am goin’ to have ’em all
congregate here, and be boarded on me for nothin’? I took men and wimmen and
childern to board. I didn’t agree to board anything else, and I won’t, nuther.
It wuzn’t in the bill.”

“Do you keep still, Josiah Allen. She’ll hear you,” I whispered. “I say it
wuzn’t in the bill,” he hollered out agin. I s’pose he meant it wasn’t in the
bargain, but he was nearly delirious (he is very close—nearly tight). But jest
that minute,—before I could say a word,—we heard a awful noise right over our
heads; it sounded as if the hull top of the house had fell in. Says Josiah: “The
old chimbly has fell in.”

Says I: “I think it is the ruff.”

And we both started for up-stairs on the run. I sent him back from the head of
the stairs, for in the awful fright he hadn’t realized his condition, and wasn’t
dressed. I waited for him at the top of the stairs, for to tell the truth, I
dassent go on. He hurried on his clothes, and went in ahead,—and there she lay;
there Miss Danks was on the floor in a historical fit. Josiah, thinkin’ she was
dead, run in and ketched her up, and went to puttin’ her on the bed; and she,
jest as they will in historicks, clawed right into his hair, and tore out above
half he had on that side. She then struck him a fearful blow in the eye—made it
black and blue for over two weeks. She didn’t know what she was about; she
wuzn’t to blame—though the hair was a great loss to him, and I won’t deny it.
Wall, we stood over her most all night to keep the breath of life in her; and
the oldest boy, bein’ skairt, it brought on some fits that he was in the habit
of havin’,—a sort of fallin’ fits; he would fall anywheres; he fell onto Josiah
twice that night, and almost knocked him down. He was awful large for his age;
dretful big and fat. It seemed as if there was sunthin’ wrong about his heft, it
was so oncommon hefty for a boy of his age. He looked bloated. His eyes, which
was a pale blue, seemed to be kinder sot back in his head, and his cheeks stood
out below, some like baloons; and his mouth was kinder open a good deal of the
time, as if it was hard work for him to breathe; he breathed thick and
wheezy,—dretful oncomfortable. His complexion was bad, too; sallow and sort o’
tallery lookin’. He acted dretful logy and heavy at the best of times, and in
them fits he was as heavy and helpless as lead. Wall, that was the third night
after they got there, and from that night, as long as they stayed there, she had
the historicks frequent and violent, and Bill had his fallin’ fits. And you
wouldn’t believe if you hadn’t seen ’em, how many things he broke a fallin’ on
’em in them fits. It beat all how unfortunate he was. They always come onto him
unexpected, and it seemed as if they would always come onto him while he was in
front of sunthin’ to smash all to bits. And I says to Josiah, says I: “Did you
ever see, Josiah Allen, anybody so unfortunate as that boy in his fits? It seems
as if he’ll break everything in the house if it goes on.”

Says he, “’Tis a pity his cussed neck don’t break!”

[Illustration: A SURPRISED COLT.] I don’t know as I ever gin Josiah Allen a
firmer, eloquenter lecture against swearin’ than I did then. But in my heart I
pitied him, for it was only the day before that he fell as he was a lookin’ at
the colt. It was only a week old, but Josiah sot his eyes by it, and the boy was
admirin’ of it—there wasn’t nothin’ ugly about him—but a fit come on, and he
fell onto the colt, and the colt not expectin’ of it, and bein’ unprepared, fell
flat down, and the boy on it; and the colt jest lived, that is all. Josiah says
it never will be worth any thing; he thinks it broke sunthin’ inside. As I said,
there wasn’t a ugly thing about Bill. He’d be awful sorry when he broke things,
and squshed ’em, and flatted ’em all out a fallin’ on ’em. All I blamed him for
was his prowlin’ round so much. I thought then, and I think still, seein’ he
knew his own heft, and knew he had ’em, and was liable to have ’em, he’d done
better to have kep’ still, and not tried to got round so much. But his mother
said he felt restless and oneasy. I couldn’t help likin’ the boy; and when he
fell right into my bread that I had a risin’ and spilte the hull batch, and when
he fell acrost the table in the parlor and broke everything that was on it, and
when he fell onto a chicken-coop and broke it down and killed a hull brood of
chickens, and when he fell onto some tomato plants of a extra kind which Josiah
had bought at a great expense and sot out, and broke ’em off short, I didn’t
feel like scoldin’ him. I s’pose it was my hefty principles that boyed me up;
them and the sweet thought that would come to me—mebby Josiah Allen will hear to
me another time, mebby he’ll get sick of summer boarders and to takin’ of ’em
in. I s’pose it was these lofty feelin’s that kep’ me up; truly if it hadn’t
been I don’t know how I could have lived, cookin’ as much as I had to, and goin’
through with what I did, historics, and fallin’ fits, and etcetery, etcetery.
And the 3 smaller children was ugly; there haint no other name made that will
describe their demenors and acts, only jest that word, ugly. They made me more
work than all my housework put together. A handlin’ everything, and a breakin’
everything, and a ridin’ the turkeys, and actin’, and performin’. [Illustration:
EXERCISING THE GOBBLER.] I spose they was told more’n a hundred times by me and
Josiah to _not_ ride that turkey gobbler. And I don’t spose there was ever any
other children on earth, only jest them 3, that would have dast to gone near it.
Why, I have seen right-minded and moral children time and agin weep and cry when
they seen it comin’ nigh ’em, it was so powerful lookin’, and high-headed. But
good land! first thing I’d know I’d see one on ’em right on that gobbler,
pretendin’ to ride it; they almost killed that Tom Turkey. And then all of a
sudden we’d hear the fannin’ mill a goin’ full blast, and Josiah would run to
the barn, and there they would be a runnin’ dirt through it, slates, stuns, or
anything. And then I’d hear the wheel a goin’ up stairs, buzzin’ as if it would
break its old band, and up I’d go, and there they’d be a spinnin’ of my best
rolls. And five different times I took the youngest one out of the flour barrel,
where they was a makin’ a ghost out of him, to appear to the oldest one—they
loved to scare that boy into fits, they loved it dearly. And they’d lay to and
eat between meals all the preserves and jell and honey they could get holt of,
unbeknown to me; they wasted twice over every day what their board come to. But
I kep’ still, and held firm. Thinkses I the medicine is bitter, but it is goin’
to do good; the patient is feelin’ the effects of it. For Josiah looked awful as
the days went by. He see he had made a terrible mistake; he see that he’d done
better to have listened to his faithful pardner. He see where he had missed it.
But pride kep’ him silent, only in the little unguarded speeches that he would
make in sudden moments of anger and agony, unbeknown to him. Such as sayin’ in
loud, quick axents:

“Dummit, I can’t stand it so much longer.” Or in low, plaintive tones, “Did
Heaven ever witness such tribulation?”

I’d ketch him a sayin’ that as he would be a bringin’ Bill in, for Josiah would
have to lift him and lug him in when he would fall out doors. That in itself I
could see was a underminin’ my pardner’s strength and his back bones. And I
shall always believe that was the reason why Danks stayed out of the way. It was
underhanded in him; he knew that boy was heavy as lead, and he knew he would
fall when he had ’em, and would have to be fetched in, and so he jest stayed
away and let Josiah do all the luggin’ and lifting’. It was three weeks before
that man come, and Josiah didn’t look like the same man. What with chasin’ after
them three littlest boys, and carryin’ round Bill in his fallin’ fits, and
havin’ the care of providin’ more provisions than was ever devoured on earth
before by the same number of people, and bein’ kep’ awake night after night by
Miss Danks’es historicks, and the oldest boy’s walkin’ in his sleep (I don’t
know as I have mentioned it, but Bill was liable to appear to us any time, and
have to be headed up stairs agin)—take it all together, Josiah looked like a
shadder. And thinkses I to myself, almost wildly, my principles was hefty, and
they are hefty; I have said I would stand firm, and I have stood firm. But oh,
must I, must I see my pardner crumple down and die before my face and eyes?
[Illustration: A HEAVY BILL.] It was Josiah’s pride that stood in the way of his
startin’ of ’em off. He couldn’t bear to give in to me that he was in the wrong
on it, and I was in the right on it. He couldn’t bear to come right out openly
and own up to his pardner how deceived, and fooled, and took in he had been.
Men’s pride is high, it towers up like a meetin’-house steeple, and when it
tottles and falls down, great is the fall thereof. I knew this, divin’ into the
mysterious ingregiencies of men’s naters so deep as I had doven, I knew this
great filisofical fact as well as I knew the dimensions of the nose on my
pardner’s face. And so I shuddered to myself as I thought it over, and pondered
on what the end would be. But I held firm on the outside, and never let on how
agonized and burdened in soul I was. My mind is like a ox’es for strength, and
very deep. This was on a Friday mornin’ that I had this melancholy revery, as I
looked out of the buttery window, as I stood there a washin’ dishes to the sink,
and see Josiah come from the barn a luggin’ Bill in. He had had a fit, and fell
acrost the grin’-stun where Josiah was a grindin’, and Josiah had to drop
everything and come a luggin’ of him in. He broke some of the runnin’-gear of
the grin’-stun that time. Josiah had it fixed so he could put a pail of water on
top of it, and it would water itself while he was a grindin’, but Bill had fell
right acrost it and flatted it all down. It cost Josiah upwards of seven
shillin’s to make that loss good. Wall, that night old Danks come. It was most
bed-time when he come, and I didn’t see him much that night. She had the
historicks the first part of the night, Miss Danks did, but we knew he was with
her, so we sort o’ gin up the care to him. Bill got up in his sleep, and went to
prowlin’ round as usual in the kitchen. But Josiah headed him off up-stairs, and
locked the chamber door onto him, and let his father tussle with him. He had a
fallin’ fit, we both think,—Josiah and me do, that he had,—and fell onto his
father, and knocked him down. We don’t know it for certain, but we think so. For
we heard the awfulest katouse you ever did hear. It sounded as if the house was
a comin’ down, and then we heard groanin’ and sithin’ and low, very low
swearin’. Of course we couldn’t sleep none while such a rumpus was a goin’ on,
and historicks and everything, and he a tryin’ to quell ’em down, but we lay and
rested, which was a good deal for us. Wall, in the mornin’, if you’ll believe
it, Danks told us (Miss Danks and the childern had gone down into the orchard to
eat some strawberries), and Danks up and told Josiah and me that he was goin’
off agin that day, on the afternoon train. He did look bad, I’ll say that for
him; his sufferin’s was great. But he hadn’t ort to shirk ’em off onto somebody
else; he hadn’t ort to throw a historicky wife onto perfect strangers, and bring
a lot of childern, perfect young hyenas, into the world, and then caper off, and
let other folks tussle with ’em. But I held firm. I knew a crysis was
approachin’ and drawin’ nigh, but I wasn’t goin’ to say nothin’; I held firm;
only I says in a mecanical and sort of wonderin’ way:

“Goin’ away to-day?”

“Yes,” said Danks, “it is a case of life and death; I must go.”

And then all of a sudden Josiah Allen bust right out, and oh! what a scene of
wild excitement rained down for the next several moments. Josiah riz right up,
and hollered out to Danks louder than I most ever hearn him holler,—loud enough
to be hearn for half a mile, though Danks was within half a foot of him. Says
he, in that loud, scareful, wild tone:

“If you leave this house for half a minute, without takin’ your family with you,
I’ll prosecute you, and throw you into jail, and take the law to you.”

It skairt Danks dretfully; it come so unexpected onto him, he fairly jumped. And
it started me for a minute, though my principles are so solid and hefty that
they hold down my composure and keep it stiddy better’n a iron wedge, makin’ my
presence of mind like a ox’es for strength. Says Josiah, in that awful and
almost deafenin’ tone of hisen, and with a mean as wild and delerious as a mean
ever looked on earth:

“I hain’t a wet-nurse, and I’ll let you know I hain’t, and Samantha hain’t a
horsepittle. Here I have,” says he, in a still more agonizin’ tone, “here I have
for week after week kep’ stiddy company with fallin’ fits and historicks. I have
been broke to pieces a luggin’ boys! and rode to death by childern! and eat up
by tape-worms! And there has got to be a stop put to it, or somebody is goin’ to
get hurt.”

He was perfectly delerious, and I says to him soothin’ly:

“Be calm, Josiah!”

“I won’t be calm, Samantha!”

But Danks had got over bein’ skairt, and begun to look cross,—crosser’n a bear.
And he spoke out, in a pert, hateful tone, old Danks did, and says he:

“’Tain’t nothin’ to me; I don’t have the fallin’ fits nor the historicks.” He
looked dretful mad, and spoke up as pert and impudent to my pardner as if it was
Josiah’s business to tussle with them fits and things, instead of hisen. I had
thought I wouldn’t put in my note at all, but I hain’t one to stand by and see
my pardner imposed upon. And then, too, I felt in the name of principle I ort to
speak. I felt a feelin’ that mebby here was a chance for me to do good. And when
he spoke out agin, more impudenter and hatefuler than before, “that it wasn’t
nothin’ to him,” says I:

“It is sunthin’ to you.” And then I went on powerful and eloquent. I can tell
you I talked deep and solemn to that man about what he took onto himself when he
sot out in matrimony; about the responsibility of marriage, and bringin’
childern into the world; the responsibility to God and man of usherin’ eternal
souls into this world for everlasting joy or misery; the terrible responsibility
to these souls and to God, the righteous Judge; and the terrible responsibility
to the world of lettin’ loose in it such mighty powers for good or evil,—a set
of likely creeters, blessings and benefactors forever, or shacks and sources of
uncounted misery, made so greatly by early care and culture; influences that
will go on and on for all time, growing and widening out all the time, till no
mind but the Eternal can reckon up or even imagine the awful consequences for
good or evil of one human soul. “How dare anyone,” says I, “lightly and
irreverantly even think on the subject,—much less tackle it.”

I talked beautiful on the subject, and deep, deeper than I had for some time. I
felt fearfully eloquent, and acted so, and very noble. But Danks acted mad, mad
as a hen. And he snapped out agin:

“Who made any calculations on fallin’ fits and such things? I didn’t.”

Why, that man almost took my head off, he snapped me up so. But I didn’t care; I
knew I was a talkin’ on principle, and that reflection is a high rock to lean
and rest the moral back against. That thought is a thick umberell to keep off
the little hailstuns of impertinence and impudence that might otherwise hurt
one’s self-respect and mortify it. I felt well and noble in my mind, and acted
well, very. I kep’ right on cool and collected together. And says I, “That is
one great reason why any one ort to consider well on’t. They ort to know that
this is one of them jobs that you can’t calculate on exactly how it is a comin’
out. You must take the chances. There is lots of undertakin’s jest so—jest as
hard to tell how it is a comin’ out as some things in Nater. Now the greatest of
minds can’t figger out exactly to a minute what time the butter will come—or how
a marriage is a goin’ to turn out—or jest when it will stop rainin’, or begin—or
when the old hen will lay. “The world is a curious place, and in lots of
undertakin’s you have to step out blindfold and ketch holt of the consequences,
good or bad. The blinders will be took offen our eyes sometime, probable, but
the time is not yet. And marriage, I take it, is one of the very reskiest
undertakin’s you can undertake. It may lead you into a happiness as pure and
lofty as a certain couple I could mention have enjoyed for the neighberhood of
20 years. It may, and then again it mayn’t. But there is one great comfort in
this that there hain’t in some things, such as rain, and thunder storms, and
etcetery. You needn’t enlist in this warfare if you hain’t a mind to—that is a
sweet and consolin’ thought—if you feel scareful over it. But if you do enlist
you must take the chances of war, you must take the resks. And if it wasn’t a
resky piece of business to embark in, why did them old fathers put these words
in the marriage service, ‘for richer, or for poorer.’ They knew what they was
about, them old fathers did. They knew they couldn’t tell whether it would turn
out rich as rich could be with blessings and bliss, or poor as poverty. Them old
fathers knew that, and bein’ likely men and sound-moraled, they fixed that
halter so that folks couldn’t squirm their necks out of it every time they got
oneasy and worrysome. “Historical fits, and etcetery,” says I, in reasonable
tones, “might come under the head of ‘worse.’ But you can’t slip your head out;
that vow holds you, for better or worse. You no need to have tackled that vow,
but you did, and now you ort to stand up under it; that is law, and that is
gospel too, which don’t always go together.”

“Well, what of it,” says Danks; “what if it duz? What are you goin’ to do about
it?”

Oh, how surly and mad that man did look. His mean would have skairt some wimmen,
but it didn’t me; mebby it would if I hadn’t been talkin’ on such high
principle, but that boyed me up. “Why,” says I, “as I have said more’n 40 times,
folks ort to get it into their heads that it is a great and serious subject that
ort to be considered and prayed over and meditated upon. They ort to realize
that gettin’ married is a solemn thing; solemner, if anything, than it is not
to, and that has always been considered a very solemn thing, very. But instead
of lookin’ on it in this serious and becomin’ way, folks will caper and prance
off into matrimony in jest as light and highlarious and triflin’ a way as if
they was headin’ a row of fantasticks on the 4th of July. They don’t consider
and filosifize on it that the fantasticks can take off their uniforms at night,
and be themselves agin, but the matrimourners can’t. They can’t do it nohow;
there they be, matrimourners. No matter how bad they feel, and how disappointed
they be by the looks of the state they have got into, they can’t get out of it.
They are matrimourners, and can’t help themselves. “The state of wedlock has got
a high, slippery wall round it, as high up as eternity, and as low down as the
same. It is a wall that can’t be stepped acrost and climbed over. It is a wall
that a man or a woman can’t sneak out and creep up on without fallin’ back—it is
too slippery. It is a wall that can’t be broke down, and jumped over only on
Bible grounds. And then when you do take that jump on Bible grounds, oh how
fatiguein’ that leap is. How much happiness and ease of mind the matrimourner
has to drop in the jump, drop forever. And how much trouble he has to carry with
him, and disquietude of mind, and condemnation, and upbraidin’s, and gossip, and
evil speaking, and hateful memories, and hauntin’ ones, and travel of soul and
body. Oh, what a time that matrimourner duz have.”

“I thought,” says he, with that surly, mad look of hisen, “I thought you was one
that preached up liberty, freedom, and etcetery.”

“So I be,” says I. “Hain’t I jest been a doin’ of it? Hain’t I jest said that no
man or woman ort to be drove into the state of matrimony by anybody only jest
their own selves? But after they lay holt, and drive themselves in, they ortn’t
to complain. But, as I have said frequent, they’ll find after they have drove
themselves in that it is the curiousest state that ever was made. None of our
States of America will compare with it for curiosity,—and some of our’n are
exceedingly curious, take ’em laws and all, to wit: Havin’ a man in congress to
make laws that imprison a man for havin’ two wives, while he himself, proud and
hauty, a settin’ up a makin’ that law, has four on ’em. Exceedingly curious that
is, and to wit: Fixin’ penalties against crime and vice, and then sellin’
licenses to encourage and make it respectable. Oh! how curious, how curious some
of our states be! But the state of matrimony is far curiouser. It is curiouser
in the beginning—some like a conundrum. States have to be admitted into the
Union; a union admits you into that state. And then, it is bounded on every side
by divinest possibilities of happiness, or the most despairin’ ones, and no
knowin’ which will break over the frontier, and capture you. Sweetest and most
rapturous joys may cover its soil as thick as blossoms on a summer prairie, or
angry passions and disappointments and cares may crunch ’em down under foot, and
set fire to ’em. Peace and trust and tenderness may rain over that state, or
anarky and sizm.”

“Yes, and fallin’ fits,” says Danks, with a bitter tone, “and historicks.”

“Yes,” says I calmly, “matrimourners ort to take all the blessings and
enjoyments and comforts with a thankful heart, and they ort to have the courage
and the nobility and the common sense to take all the evils, fallin’ fits,
historicks, and etcetery, and etcetery, with a willin’ mind. You ort,” says I
firmly, “you ort to have figured it all out. You ort to have figured out the
hull sum, orts and all, and seen what was to carry, and got the right answer to
it, before you drove yourself into that state.”

“How could I see to carry historicks? how could I figured ’em out?” says he
bitterly. But I kep’ right on: “You ort to have studied it out, whether you was
strong enough to stand the climate, with its torrid weather and its frigid
zones, its sweet summery winds and its blasts, its squalls and hurrycains. But
as I have said 40 times, if I have once, after you have drove yourself into that
state, you ort to hist up your moral umberell, and make the best on’t.”

Danks didn’t look convinced at all. He muttered sunthin’ agin about fits and
other things, and how he hadn’t made no calculations on ’em; and I felt fairly
out of patience, and went to allegorin’, as I might have known I should before I
got through. (It is next to impossible for me to be so eloquent as I was then
without allegorin’ some). “Why,” says I, “when a man buys a farm, he must be a
natural fool, or else a luny, if he expects and calculates the sun to shine on
it every day the year round. He must make calculations for rain and snow,
sunshine and thunder. He can’t expect it all to be ripe wheat and apple-sass. He
buys it with his eyes open; buys it with all its possibilities of good or evil;
and don’t expect, if he hain’t a fool, to shirk out of carryin’ of ’em.”

“Who has shirked out of carryin’ of ’em?” says Danks. “I hain’t.”

“You have!” says Josiah, a jumpin’ up and hollerin’ at him agin; and his face
was red as a fire-bran’. “I hain’t!” says Danks. “You have!” says Josiah. “And
don’t you dispute me agin if you know what is good for yourself. You have
shirked out of carryin’ that dumb boy of your’n, in his dumb fits. And I let you
know that I have broke my back for the last time a luggin’ him round, or
somebody or sunthin’ is goin’ to get hurt, and I can tell you so—dummit!”

I felt as if I should sink. My Josiah was almost doin’ what Miss Job advised Mr.
Job to do when he was smote with agony and biles. He was almost a swearin’. But
here was where I and the late Miss Job differ. I knew my pardner’s sufferin’s
was intense, and them sufferin’s was terrible to me. But still I says in a
reprovin’, but tender and pityin’ tone:

“Be calm, Josiah!”

“I won’t be calm!” says he. Says I: “Josiah, you must; you are almost
delerious.” Says I: “You are a swearin’, Josiah! be calm!”

“Wall, I tell you agin that I won’t be calm; and I tell you agin, _dummit_!
there now! _dummit_!”

Oh! how my pardner did look, how his axent did sound, as he uttered them fearful
and profane words. And then before I could put in a soothin’ word to soothe him,
Danks spoke right out, and says he:

“You promised to take ’em for all summer, and if you don’t I won’t pay you a
cent for their board, and you can’t make me.”

Here Josiah turned as white as a white milk-pail, and groaned to that extent
that I thought he was a goin’ to faint away. And as it turned out, the law was
on Danks’es side. Josiah made ’em all go that very day, but he couldn’t get a
cent from ’em. He hired a lawyer to prosicute Danks, but Danks, bein’ sharp-
witted and ugly (and sometimes I think that such trials as he underwent, if
anybody don’t take ’em as a means of grace, makes anybody ugly. I can’t help
feelin’ sorry for Danks, after all). But as I was a sayin’, Danks worked it in
such a way that Josiah lost the case, and had to pay the costs on both sides.
They was heavy bills,—most as heavy as Bill Danks,—and take it with what we lost
boardin’ of ’em, and what the childern tore to pieces, and Bill smashed and
squshed down, a fallin’ on ’em,—take it all together, it is a loss that makes
Josiah Allen groan now every time he thinks on it. We don’t either of us think
his back will ever feel as it did before. He strained it beyond its strength.
[Illustration]

A VISIT FROM MISS RICKERSON. It was about a week after the Danks’es departure
and exodus. It was a cool day for the time of the year, and very windy. And I
was settin’ calm and peaceful, hullin’ some strawberries for dinner. For my
companion, Josiah Allen, had gone to Jonesville, and I wanted to have dinner
ready by the time of his arrival. But I had only jest got my potatoes pared and
over the stove, when I heard the old mare and him drive into the barn-yard. He
had come sooner than I looked for. But it didn’t excite me; I was prepared. For
not knowin’ exactly the time of his arrival, I had made ready for any emergency.
I had drawed the table out, and put the table-cloth on; and I felt at rest, and
peaceful. Let wimmen whose pardners are wont to rampage round and act, when they
come in and find dinner only jest begun—let ’em not tell any wrong stories or
exagerations or parables, let ’em not bandy words or argue, but let ’em, jest
before he comes in, draw out the table and throw the table-cloth on, and
everything will move on peaceful; their pardners will think dinner is most
ready, and as they glance at that snowy table-cloth their wrath will leave ’em,
and they will demean themselves like lambs. I only tell what I have learnt from
experience. And any little crumbs of wisdom and knowledge that I have gained by
hard experience, and through tribulation, I am willin’ to share freely, without
money and without price, with the female sect; I think so much of ’em, and wish
’em so well. Now jest this one little receipt,—this table-cloth
performance,—would have been worth dollars and dollars to me if I had known it
when I was first a pardner. But I never found it out till I had been married
over thirteen years, and had been jawed accordingly, when I was belated and
dinner wasn’t ready. Why no woman would have any idee of its value till they try
it. Men are as likely creeters as the earth affords, if you only know how to get
along with ’em. And wimmen has to try various ways and measures. I learnt this
jest by tryin’ it as a experiment. I have tried a good many experiments—little
harmless ones like this. Some of ’em work, and some don’t. Wall, I sot there
hullin’ my berries, and listenin’ to the wind, which was a roarin’ round the
house. Seems as if I never heard it blow no harder. It blowed for all the world
as if it had been kep’ in through sickness in its family, or sunthin’, and was
out now for the first time, on a regular spree. And though it didn’t come right
out and sing ’em in plain words, yet it seemed to be a roarin’ it down the
chimbley, and blowin’ it through the orchard and round the corners of the house,
and whistlin’ it through the open buttery window—the song that other elevated
and gay spirits indulge in, about bein’ fairly determined and sot to not go home
till mornin’. It blowed fearfully. But I was calm and peaceful, knowin’ the
table-cloth was on, and Josiah would act first-rate. And then, when a tempest is
a howlin’ and a actin’ out-doors, it seems as if I enjoy more than ever the
safety and sweet repose and happiness of my own hearth-stun (which last is a
poetical simely, our hearth not bein’ stun at all, but iron, with a nickel
platin’ round it). Wall, there I sot, feelin’ well and lookin’ well. I had
combed my hair slick, and put on a clean gingham dress,—when Josiah Allen opened
the door and walked in. He glanced at the table-cloth, and a calm, contented
look settled upon his eye-brow, but he left the door open behind him as composed
as if he had been born in a saw-mill; and says I:

“Josiah Allen, if there was a heavy fine to pay for shettin’ up doors, you
wouldn’t never loose a cent of your property in that way.” And says I, clutchin’
my pan of strawberries with a firmer grip, for truly it was a movin’ and
onstiddy, and my apron was a flutterin’ like a banner in the cold breeze: “If
you don’t want me to blow away, Josiah Allen, shet up that door.”

[Illustration: “SHUT THAT DOOR.”]

“Oh shaw! Samantha. You won’t blow away; you are too hefty. It would take a
hurrycane and a simon, too, to tackle you, and lift you.”

“Simon who?” says I, in cold axents, caused partly by my frigid emotions and the
cool blast, and partly by his darin’ to say any man could take me up and carry
me away. “Oh! the simons they have on the desert. We hearn Thomas J. read about
’em. They’ll blow camels away, and everything.”

Says I dreamily: “Who’d have thought twenty years ago, to have heard that man a
courtin’ me, and callin’ me a zephire and a pink posy and a angel, that he’d
ever live to see the day he’d call me a camel.”

“I hain’t called you a camel. I only meant you was hefty, and camels was hefty,
and it would take a simon or two to lift you round, either on you.”

“Wall,” says I, in frigid tones, “what I want to know is, are you a goin’ to
shet that door?”

“Yes, I be, jest as quick as I change my clothes. I don’t want to fodder in
these new briches.”

I rose with dignity,—or as much dignity as I could lay holt of, half bent,
tryin’ to keep five or six quarts of strawberries from spillin’ all over the
floor,—and went and shet the door myself, which I might have known enough to
done in the first place, and saved time and breath. For shettin’ up doors is a
accomplishment that Josiah Allen never will master. I have tutored him up on
lots of things since we was married, but in this branch of education he has been
too much for me. Experiments have been vain; I have about gin up. In the course
of ten or fifteen minutes, Josiah come out of the bedroom lookin’ as pleasant
and peaceful as you please, with his hands in his pantaloons pockets, seemin’ly
searchin’ their remotest depths, and says he in a off-hand, careless way:

“I’ll be hanged if there hain’t a letter for you, Samantha.”

“How many weeks have you carried it ’round, Josiah Allen?” says I. “It would
scare me if you should give me a letter before you had carried it round in your
pockets a month or so.”

“Oh! I guess I only got this two or three days ago. I meant to handed it to you
the first thing when I got home. But I hain’t had on these old breeches sence
that day I went to mill.”

“Three weeks ago to-day,” says I, in almost frosty axents, as I opened my
letter. “Wall,” says Josiah cheerfully, as he hunted round in the bedroom for
his old hat, “I knew it wuzn’t long, anyway.”

I glanced my gray eye down the letter, and says I in agitated tones:

“Come out here, Josiah Allen, and let me look at you, and wither you! She that
was Alzina Ann Allen is comin’ here a visatin’. She wrote me three weeks ahead,
so’s to have me prepared. And here she is liable to come in on us any minute,
now, and find us all unprepared.” Says I, “I wouldn’t have had it happen for a
ten-cent bill to had one of the relation on your side come and ketch me in such
a condition. There the curtains are all down in the spare room. Bill Danks fell
and dragged ’em down onto the floor under him, and mussed ’em all up, and I
washed ’em yesterday, and they hain’t ironed. And the carpet in the settin’-room
up to mend, where he fell onto it with a lighted candle in his hand and sot it
afire. And not a mite of fruit-cake in the house, and she a comin’ here to-day.
I am mortified most to death, Josiah Allen. And if you had give me that letter,
I should have hired help and got everything done. I should think your conscience
would smart like a burn, if you have got a conscience, Josiah Allen.”

“Wall, less have a little sunthin’ to eat, Samantha, and I’ll help round.”

“Help! What’ll you do, Josiah Allen?”

“Oh! I’ll do the barn chores, and help all I can. I guess you’d better cook a
little of that canned sammen I got to Jonesville.”

Says I coldly, “I believe, Josiah Allen, if you was on your way to the gallus,
you’d make ’em stop and get vittles for you—meat vittles, if you could.”

I didn’t say nothin’ more, for, as the greatest poets have sung, “the least
said, the soonest mended.” But I rose, and with outward calmness opened the can
of salmon, and jest as I put that over the stove, with some sweet cream and
butter, if you’ll believe it, that very minute she that was Alzina Ann Allen
drove right up to the door, and come in. You could have knocked me down with a
hen’s feather (as it were), my feelin’s was such; but I concealed ’em as well as
I could, and advanced to the door, and says I:

“How do you do, Miss Rickerson?” She is married to Bildad Rickerson, old Dan
Rickerson’s oldest boy. [Illustration: ARRIVAL OF MISS RICKERSON.] She is a
tall, bony woman, light-complected, sandy-haired, and with big, light-blue eyes.
I hadn’t seen her for nineteen years, but she seemed dretful tickled to see me,
and says she:

“You look younger, Samantha, than you did the first time I ever seen you.”

“Oh, no!” says I, “that can’t be, Alzina Ann, for that is in the neighberhood of
thirty years ago.”

Says she, “It is true as I live and breathe, you look younger and handsomer than
I ever see you look.”

I didn’t believe it, but I thought it wouldn’t look well to dispute her any
more; so I let it go; and mebby she thought she had convinced me that I did look
younger than I did when I was eighteen or twenty. But I only said “That I didn’t
feel so young any way. I had spells of feelin’ mauger.”

She took off her things, or “wrappers,” as Tirzah Ann says it is more genteel to
call ’em. She was dressed up awful slick, and Josiah helped the driver bring in
her trunk. And I told her jest how mortified I wuz about Josiah’s forgettin’ her
letter, and her ketchin’ me unprepared. But good land! she told me that “she
never in her hull life see a house in such beautiful order as mine was, and she
had seen thousands and thousands of different houses.”

Says I, “I feel worked up and almost mortified about my settin’-room carpet
bein’ up.”

But she held up both hands—they was white as snow, and all covered with
rings—and says she, “If there is one thing that I love to see more than another
it is to see a settin’-room carpet up, it gives such a sort of a free, noble
look to a room.”

Says I, “The curtains are down in the spare bedroom, and I am almost entirely
out of cookin’.”

Says she, “If I had my way, I never would have a curtain up to a window. The sky
always looks so pure and innocent somehow. It is so beautiful to set and look up
into the calm heavens, with no worldly obstructions between, such as curtains.
It is so sweet to sit in your chair, and knit tattin’, and commune with holy
nature. And cookin’,” says she, with a look of complete disgust on her face,
“why I fairly despise cookin’. What’s the use of it?” says she, with a sweet
smile. “Why,” says I, reasonably, “if it wasn’t for cookin’ vittles and eatin’
em, I guess we shouldn’t stand it a great while, none of us.”

I didn’t really like the way she went on. Never, never, through my hull life,
was I praised up by anybody as I was by her durin’ the three days that she
stayed with us. She praised everything fur beyond what they would bear. I
believe in praisin’ things that will stand praisin’. Nothin’ does any one more
good than appreciation. Honest admiration, sympathy, and good-will put into
words are more inspirin’ and stimulatin’ than tongue can tell. They are truly
refreshin’. I think as a rule we New Englanders are too cold in our means. Mebby
it is settin’ on Plymouth Rock so much, or leanin’ up against Bunker Hill
Monument; or mebby we took it from our old Puriten four-fathers, and mebby them
four old men ketched cold in their demeaniers from settin’ under the chilly blue
light of their old laws, or took the trait from the savages. Any way, we are too
undemonstrative and reticent (them are very hefty words, and it is seldom indeed
that I harness up a span of such a size to carry my idees. As a general thing I
don’t have idees so hefty but what I can draw ’em along with considerable small
words. And I prefer ’em always, as bein’ easier reined in, and held up, and
governed. Why, I have seen such awful big words harnessed in front of such weak
little idees that they run away with ’em, kicked in the harness, got all tangled
up, and made a perfect wrack and ruin of the little idee. Hence, I am cautious,
and if I owned droves of ’em, I should be on the safe side, and handle ’em
careful and not drive ’em hardly any. But these two I have heard Thomas J. use
in jest this place, and hain’t a doubt but they are safe and stiddy as any ever
was of their size.) Thomas J. said, and I believe, that we are too bashful, or
shy, or sunthin’, too afraid of expressin’ our hearty appreciation, the honest,
friendly admiration and regard we entertain for our friends. But if my friends
like me, or my work, I want ’em to tell me of it, to give me the help, and
encouragement, and insperation this knowledge will bring. A few sympathetic,
cheerin’ words and a warm smile and hand-clasp will do more good than to wait
and cut the praise on marble, when the heart they would have cheered and
lightened is beyond the touch of joy or pain. I think it is not only silly, but
unchristian, to be so afraid of tellin’ our friends frankly how pleasant and
admirable we think them, _if we do think so_. But let us not lie. Let us not
praise what won’t stand praisin’. Now when Alzina Ann Rickerson told me that I
was as pretty as any wax doll she ever see in her life—and if my intellect and
Shakespeare’s intellect was laid side by side, Shakespeare’s would look weak and
shiftless compared with mine—and when she said that my old winter bunnet that I
had wore on and off for thirteen years was the most genteel and fashionable, and
the loveliest piece of millionary she ever sot her eyes on, she was goin’ too
fur. Why, that old bunnet wouldn’t hardly hold together to stand her praisin’.
And she praised up everything. She flattered Kellup Cobb so, when he happened to
come in there one mornin’, that it skairt him most to death. He had been up by
on his father’s business, and as he come along back he stopped the hearse and
come in to see when Kitty was a comin’ back, and to see if he could borrow
Josiah’s stun-bolt that afternoon to draw some stuns. He was goin’ to wait till
Josiah come back from the factory to see about it, but Alzina Ann praised him up
so, and looked so admiringly at him, that he dassent. As a general thing I think
Kellup is afraider than he need to be of doin’ hurt and gettin’ wimmen in love
with him, but now I’ll be hanged if I blame him for thinkin’ he was doin’
damage. Why, she praised him up to the very skies. She pretended to think that
his hair and whiskers and eyebrows was the natural color. They was a sort of a
greenish color that mornin’—he had been a tamperin’ with ’em agin, and tryin’
experements. He had been a usin’ smartweed and sage, as I found out afterwards,
and they bein’ yellow before, the two colors together made ’em a sort of a dark
bottle-green—made him look as curious as a dog, and curiouser than any dog I
ever laid eyes on. But oh, how Alzina Ann did praise ’em up. You’d have thought,
to heard her go on, that she had all her hull life been longin’ to ketch a
glimpse of jest such colored hair and whiskers. She said they looked so
strikin’, and she never had seen anything like ’em in her life before, which
last I don’t doubt at all. And then she would glance out at the hearse, and tell
him he looked so noble and impressive on it, it give him such a lofty, majestic
look, so becomin’ to his style. And then she would branch off again and praise
up his looks. Why, I don’t wonder a mite that Kellup thought he was ensnarin’
her affections and doin’ harm. He follered me out onto the back stoop, where I
was feedin’ a chicken that the old hen had forsook, and I was bringin’ up as a
corset. He follered me out there, and whispered, with a anxious look, that he
was goin’ to start for home that minute, that he dassent wait another minute to
see Josiah about the stun-bolt; and, says he; with a awful anxious look:

“I am afraid I have done hurt as it is, but Heaven knows I didn’t mean to.”

I threw the corset another handful of dough, and told him, in a encouragin’
tone, that “I guessed he hadn’t done much harm.”

“Why,” says he, “don’t you s’pose I could see for myself what I was a doin’? She
was a gettin’ head over heels in love with me. And,” says he, frownin’ and
knittin’ up his eyebrows:

“What good will it do to have another married woman a droopin’ round after me?”

[Illustration: KELLUP’S CONUNDRUM.] Says I, mechanically, as I put some fresh
water on the corset’s dish:

“I thought you wanted to see Josiah about the stun-bolt, you said you needed
it.”

“Yes, I need the stun-bolt, but I need a easy conscience more. I had ruther lug
the stuns in my arms, and crack my back, and bruise my stomach, than crack the
commandments and strain my principles. I see from her actions that I have got to
leave at once, or no knowin’ what the consequences will be to her. I am afraid
she will suffer now, suffer intensely. But what can a man do?” says he, frownin’
heavily. “They have got to go around some, and do errants. And if wimmen lay
traps for ’em on every side, and make fools of themselves, what is a man to do?
But I don’t want to do harm, Heaven knows I don’t.”

And he started for the gate almost on the run. And I was jest a goin’ in when
Alzina Ann come out to the back door herself, and happenin’ to see the corset,
she said “she should rather have it for a pet, and it was far handsomer and more
valuable than any mockin’-bird, or canary, or parrot she ever laid eyes on.” And
so she kep’ on in jest that way. And one mornin’ when she had been goin’ on
dretfully that way, I took Josiah out one side and told him “I couldn’t bear to
hear her go on so, and I believed there was sunthin’ wrong about it.”

“Oh, no,” says he, “she means every word she says. She is one of the loveliest
creeters on earth. She is most a angel. Oh!” says he, dreamily, “What a sound
mind she has got. How fur she can see into things.”

Says I, “I heard her a tellin’ you this mornin’ that you was one of the
handsomest men she ever laid eyes on, and didn’t look a day over twenty-one.”

“Wall,” says he, with the doggy firmness of his sect, “she thinks so; she says
jest exactly what she thinks.” And says he, in firm axents, “I am a good-lookin’
feller, Samantha—a crackin’ good-lookin’ chap; but I never could make you own up
to it.”

I didn’t say nothin’, but my gray eye wandered up, and lighted on his bald head.
It rested there searchin’ly and very coldly for a moment or two, and then says I
sternly, “Bald heads and beauty don’t go together worth a cent. But you was
always vain, Josiah Allen.”

Says he, “What if I wuz?” And says he, “She thinks different from what you do
about my looks. She has got a keen eye in her head for beauty. She is very
smart, very. And what she says, she means.”

“Wall,” says I, “I am glad you are so happy in your mind. But mark my words, you
won’t always feel so neat about it, Josiah Allen, as you do now.”

Says he in a cross, surly way, “I guess I know what I do know.”

I hain’t a jealous hair in the hull of my foretop or back hair, but I thought to
myself, I’d love to see Josiah Allen’s eyes opened; for I knew as well as I knew
my name was Josiah Allen’s wife, that that woman didn’t think Josiah was so
pretty and beautiful. But I didn’t see how I was goin’ to convince him, for he
wouldn’t believe me when I told him she was a makin’ of it; and I knew she would
stick to what she had said, and so there it was. But I held firm, and cooked
good vittles, and done well by her. [Illustration]

CASSANDRA’S TEA PARTY. That very afternoon we was all invited to take tea with
she that was Cassandra Allen, Miss Nathan Spooner, that now is. And we all went,
Alzina Ann, Josiah, and me. Cassandra didn’t use to be likely. She had a
misfortune when she was a girl. It is six years old now. But all of a sudden she
took a turn, and went to behavin’. She learnt the dress-maker’s trade,
experienced religion, and jined the Methodist Church. And folks begun to make of
her. I didn’t use to associate with her at all, Josiah didn’t want me to, though
she is his 2nd cousin on his father’s side. But jist as quick as she went to
behavin’, we went to makin’ of her. And the more she behaved, the more we made;
till we make as much of her now as we do of any of the relation on my side, or
on hisen. And last fall she was married to Nathan Spooner. She got acquainted
with him about two years ago. Nathan is a likely feller, all that ails him is he
is bashful, too bashful for any sort of comfort. But Cassandra is proud-
spirited, and holds him up, and I tell Cassandra “I dare say he’ll get over it
by the time he gets to be a old man. I tell her “I shouldn’t wonder at all if by
the time he got to be seventy or eighty, he would talk up quite well.” I try to
make her feel well, and encourage her all I can. [Illustration: NATHAN SPOONER.]
But bein’ proud-spirited, it works her up awfully to have Nathan get over the
fence, rather than meet a strange woman, and walk in the lot till he gets by
her. And it mortified her dretfully, I s’pose, when she introduced him to our
new minister and his wife, to have him instead of bowin’ to ’em, and speakin’,
turn his back to ’em, and snicker. [Illustration: NATHAN SNICKERS.] But he
couldn’t help it, I told her he couldn’t. I was present at the time, and I could
see, his mouth bein’ a little open, that his tongue was dry, and parched, and
his eyes wild and sot in his head. He has the worst of it, as I told
Cassandra—it don’t hurt nobody else so bad as it does him. But I s’pose it has
been almost the means of his death, time and agin—through his not dastin’ to
call for anything to eat when he is away from home, and not dastin’ to eat it
when it is on the table. And then again, sometimes, through his not dastin’ to
stop eatin’ when he gets at it. He went to Bobbets’ one day in the fall of the
year,—it was a year ago this present fall. Cassandra was a sewin’ for Miss
Bobbet. They had jest had some new corn ground, and they had a new corn puddin’
and milk for dinner. Nathan had been to dinner jest before he went in there. His
mother had had a boiled dinner, and mince pie, and etcetery—he had eat a awful
dinner, and was so full he felt fairly uncomfortable. But Miss Bobbet urged him
to set down and eat, and wouldn’t take no refusal. She thought he was refusin’
because he was bashful, and she urged him out of his way, telling him he _must_
eat, and he, not dastin’ to refuse any longer, thought he would set down and eat
a few mouthfuls, if he could, though it seemed to him as if he couldn’t get down
another mouthful. [Illustration: PUDDING AND MILK.] But when he stopped,
Cassandra, thinkin’ it was bashfulness that made him stop, and thinkin’ a good
deal of him then—and wantin him to eat all the puddin’ he wanted, she told him
she shouldn’t think he showed good manners at all, if he didn’t eat as much as
she did, anyway. So he dassent do anything else then, only jest eat as long as
they wanted him to, and he did. Miss Bobbet would press him to have his bowl
filled up again with milk, and Cassandra would urge him to have a little more
puddin’, and he not dastin’ to stop, after she had said what she had, I spose he
eat pretty nigh three quarts. It almost killed him. He vomited all the way home,
and was laid up bed-sick for more’n two weeks. And he has destroyed his clothes
dretfully. Now hats,—I spose it took pretty nigh all he could earn to keep
himself in hats. When he would go to any new place, or evenin’ meetings or
anything, he would muss ’em so, rub ’em, and everything—why, he couldn’t keep no
nap on a hat at all, not for any length of time—he would rub ’em so, and poke at
’em, and jab ’em, and wring ’em when he was feelin’ the worst. Why, he got holt
of Josiah’s hat, thinkin’ it was hisen, one night at a church social; they
appointed Nathan to some office, and he wrung that hat till there wasn’t no
shape of a hat to it. When Josiah put it on to go home, it was a sight to
behold. Anybody would have thought that it was the fashion in the Allen family
to wear hats for night-caps, and this had been the family hat to sleep in for
years. Josiah was for makin’ him pay for the wear and tear of it. But I wouldn’t
hear a word to it. I told him breakin’ bruised reeds, or smokin’ flax, would be
tender-hearted business compared to makin’ anybody pay for such sufferin’s as
Nathan Spooner had suffered that night. Says I, “if he wrung one mite of comfort
out o’ that hat, for pity sake don’t begrech it to him.”

[Illustration: THE FAMILY NIGHT-CAP.] Why, I have been so sorry for that feller
that I didn’t know what to do. Now when he was a courtin’ Cassandra (and how he
ever got up spunk enough to court a mouse, is a mystery to me), Cassandra used
to sew for me, and he would come there evenin’s to see her, and set the hull
evenin’ long and not say nothin’, but jest look at her, and twirl his thumbs one
over the other. And I told Josiah “I felt bad for him, and it seemed as if his
thumbs must give out after a while, and it looked fairly solemn to me, to see
’em a goin’ so, for evenin’ after evenin’, and week after week, without any
change.”

And Josiah said there was a change. He said about the middle of the evenin’ he
changed thumbs, and twirled ’em the other way. I don’t know whether it was so or
not. I couldn’t see no change; and I told Josiah I couldn’t. How under the sun
he ever got up courage to ask her to marry him, is another deep and mysterious
mystery, and always has been. But there are strange things in this world that
there hain’t no use tryin’ to pry into and explain. But in his feeble way, he
courted her a good deal, and thought everything of her, anybody could see that.
And he popped the question to her, or she to him, or it popped itself,—anyway it
was popped, and they was married. They said he suffered dretfully the day he was
married, and acted strange and bad. They said he seemed to act sort o’ paralyzed
and blind. And she had to take the lead, and take holt of his hand, and lead him
up to the minister, instead of his leadin’ her. Some made fun of it, but I
didn’t. I told ’em I presumed he was fairly blind for the time bein’, and sort
o’ numb, and didn’t sense what was passin’ round him. [Illustration: NATHAN SOT
DOWN.] It made it as bad agin for him, to think he fell jest after they was
married. You see he sort ’o backed off to set down, for he needed rest. And
feelin’ so weak and wobblin’ and sort o’ tottlin’, he didn’t back quite fur
enough, and sot right down on the floor. It hurt him awfully, I s’pose, from
their tell. He was tall, and they say he struck hard. But he was too bashful to
have a doctor, or make any fuss, only jest set there where he wuz. Some think he
would have sot there all night, and not tried to make a move towards gettin’ up
at all. But Cassandra was proud-spirited, and helped him up onto his feet. But
they said he acted jest exactly like a fool. And I told ’em in reasonable axents
“that I presumed he wuz a fool for the time bein’.” Says I, “When anybody’s
senses are gone, they are a fool.” Says I, “It is jest as bad to be skairt out
of ’em, as be born without ’em, as long as it lasts.”

But says I, “He knows enough when he hain’t skairt to death.” And he does. He is
industrious, and so is she, and I shouldn’t wonder if they got along first-rate,
and done well. Wall, when we got there, Nathan was settin’ by the stove in the
settin’-room. He was afraid of Alzina Ann, and was too bashful to set down, or
stand up, or speak, or anything. And when she asked him “how his health was,” he
didn’t say nothin’, but looked down on the floor, and under his chair, and into
his hat, as if he was tryin’ to find his health, and drive it out, and make it
tell how it was. But she asked him over agin—she was perfectly heartless, or
else she didn’t notice his sufferin’s. And the second time she asked him, he
sort o’ looked under his chair agin, and into his coat pocket, and seemed to
give up findin’ his health and makin’ it speak for him, so he said, sort o’ dry
and husky, sunthin’ about bein’ “comfortable.”

Which was one of the biggest stories Nathan Spooner had told sence he j’ined the
meetin’-house, for he wuzn’t comfortable; far from it. His face was red as
blood, and he was more than half blind, I could see that by the looks of his
mean. But after awhile he seemed to revive up a little. He wuzn’t afraid of me
and Josiah, not very. And after Alzina Ann and Cassandra got engaged in talkin,
he said quite a number of words to us, as rational and straight as anybody. But
Alzina Ann had to bring back his sufferin’s agin, and worse than he had
suffered. I hadn’t said a word to Alzina Ann about Cassandra’s misfortune; I
hadn’t mentioned the child to her. He is a dretful humbly child, about the
humbliest boy I ever see in my life. He looks fairly pitiful he is so humbly,
and he hain’t more than half-witted, I think. But Alzina Ann couldn’t keep
still; she had to flatter somebody, or sunthin’, so she had to begin agin:

“How much! how much! that beautiful little boy looks like his pa! Don’t you
think so?” says she to Cassandra. And then she would look at Nathan, and then at
the boy, in that rapt, enthusiastic way of her’n. And says she to Cassandra:

“Hain’t it a comfort to you to think he looks so much like his pa?”

[Illustration: CASSANDRA’S MISFORTUNE.] And Cassandra’s face would get red as
blood, and I could see by her looks that she hadn’t the least idee what to say,
or do, she was so awful wretched, and feerfully uncomfortable. And truly if
Nathan Spooner could have sunk right down through the floor into the suller,
right into the potato-ben, or pork-barrell, it would have been one of the most
blessed reliefs to him that he ever enjoyed. If she had said what she had to
say, and then left off; but Alzina Ann never’ll do that; she has to enlarge on
her idees. And so she would keep a-askin’ Cassandra in that rapturous, admirin’
way of her’n, if she didn’t think her boy had the same noble, handsome look and
manners that his father had. And Cassandra’s face and Nathan’s would be as red
as two red woolen shirts. And then Alzina Ann would look at the child’s pug
nose, and then at Nathan’s, which is a sort of a Roman one, and the best feature
on his face, as Josiah says. She would look from one nose to the other as if she
admired both of ’em so she couldn’t hardly stop lookin’ at ’em, and would ask
Nathan “if folks hadn’t told him before how much his little boy resembled his
pa?”

And Nathan didn’t say nothin’ but jest set there red as blood, his eyes fixed
and glarin’ on the opposite wall, a watchin’ it as close and wishful as if he
expected to see a relief party set out from it to befriend him, and shoot him
down where he sot, or drag him off into captivity. Anything that would relieve
him of his present sufferin’s he would have hailed gladly. I could see that by
his mean. But at supper-time worse was in store for him. Her supper was
good—good enough for anybody. She haint got a great deal to do with, but bein’ a
little afraid of Alzina Ann, and bein’ proud-spirited and wantin to make a good
appearance, Cassandra had sent over and borrowed her mother-in-laws’s white-
handled knives, and entirely unbeknown to Alzina Ann I had carried her over some
tea-spoons and other things for her comfort, for if Cassandra means to do
better, and try to get along and be respectable, I want to encourage her all I
can, so I carried her the spoons. But all the time Cassandra was a settin’ the
table, Nathan looked worse and worse; he looked so bad it didn’t seem as if we
_could_ keep him out of the suller. He realized what was in front of him. You
see Cassandra, bein’ so determined to do better, and start right in the married
life, made a practice of makin’ Nathan ask a blessin’. But he bein’ so uncommon
bashful, it made it awful hard for him when they had company. He wuzn’t a
professor, nor nothin’, and it come tough on him. He looked more and more as if
he would sink all the while she was a gettin’ the supper onto the table. And
when she was a settin’ the chairs round the table he looked so bad that I didn’t
know but what he would have to have help to get to the table. And he would give
the most pitiful and beseechin’ looks onto Cassandra that ever was, but she
would shake her head at him, and look decided, and then he would look as if he
would wilt right down agin. So, when we got set down to the table, Cassandra
give him a real firm look, and he give a kind of a low groan, and shet up his
eyes, and Cassandra, and me, and Josiah put on a becomin’ look for the occasion,
and shet up our’n, when, all of a sudden, Alzina Ann—she never asked a blessin’
in her own house, and forgot that other folks did—she spoke out in a real loud,
admirin’ tone, and says she:

“There! I will say it, I never see such beautiful knives as them be, in my hull
life. White-handled knives, with a gilt of sun-flowers on ’em, is something I
always wanted to own, and always thought I would own. But never, never did I see
any that was so perfectly beautiful as these are.”

And she held her knife out at arm’s length, and looked at it admirin’ly, and
almost rapturusly. Nathan looked bad, dretful bad, for he see by Cassandra’s
looks that she wuzn’t goin’ to set him free from the blessin’. And he sort o’
nestled round, and looked under the table, a wishful and melancholy look, as if
he had hopes of findin’ a blessin’ there; as if he thought mebby there might be
one a layin’ round loose on the floor that he could get holt of, and so be sot
free himself. But we didn’t none on us reply to Alzina Ann, and she seemed to
kind o’ quiet down, and Cassandra give Nathan another look, and he bent his
head, and shet up his eyes agin, and she, and me, and Josiah shet up our’n. And
Nathan was jest beginnin’ agin, when Alzina Ann broke out afresh, and says:

“What wouldn’t I give if I owned some knives like them? What a proud and happy
woman it would make me.”

[Illustration: BAD FOR NATHAN.] That rousted us all up agin, and never did I
see—unless it was on a funeral occasion—a face look as Nathan’s face looked.
Nobody could have blamed him a mite if he had gin up then, and not made another
effort. But Cassandra bein’ so awful determined to do jest right, and start
right in the married life, she winked to Nathan agin, as firm and decided a wink
as I ever see wunk, and shet up her eyes, and Josiah and I done as she done, and
shet up our’n. And Nathan (feelin’ as if he _must_ sink), got all ready to begin
agin. He had jest got his mouth opened, when says Alzina Ann, in that rapturus
way of her’n:

“Do tell me, Cassandra, how much did you give for these knives, and where did
you get ’em?”

Then it was Cassandra’s turn to feel as if she must sink, for, bein’ so proud-
spirited, it was like pullin’ out a sound tooth to tell Alzina Ann they was
borrowed. But bein’ so sot in tryin’ to do right she would have up and told her.
But I, feelin’ sorry for her, branched right off, and asked Nathan “if he layed
out to vote republican or democrat.”

Cassandra sithed, and went to pourin’ out the tea. And Nathan, feelin’ so
relieved, brightened up, and spoke up like a man, the first words he spoke out
loud and plain, like a human bein’, that day—says he:

“If things turn out with me as I hope they will, I calc’late to vote for old
Peter Cooper.”

I could see by the looks of Josiah’s mean that he was a gettin’ kinder sick of
Alzina Ann, and (though I haint got a jealous hair in the hull of my back-hair
and foretop) I didn’t care a mite if he wuz. But truly worse wuz to come. After
supper Josiah and me was a settin’ in the spare room close to the window, a
lookin’ through Cassandra’s album, when we heard Alzina Ann and Cassandra out
under the window a-lookin’ at the posy beds, when Alzina Ann says:

“You must excuse my lookin’ at you so much, Cassandra, but you are so lovely and
fair-lookin’ that I can’t keep my eyes offen you. And what a noble-appearin’
husband you have got—perfectly splendid! And how pleasant it is here to your
house—perfectly beautiful! Seein’ we are such friends to her, I feel free to
tell you what a awful state I find Josiah Allen’s wife’s house in. Not a mite of
a carpet on her settin’-room floor, and nothin’ gives a room such a awful look
as that. She said it was up to mend, but, between you and me, I don’t believe a
word of it. I believe it was up for some other purpose, somethin’ she didn’t
want to tell. “And the curtains was down in my room, and I had to sleep all the
first night in that condition. I might jest as well set up, for I could not
sleep, it looked so. And when she got ’em up the next mornin’, they wuzn’t
nothin’ but plain, white muslin. I should think she could afford something a
little more decent than that for her spare room. And she hadn’t a mite of fruit
cake in the house, only two kinds of common-lookin’ cake. She said Josiah forgot
to give her my letter, and she didn’t get word I was comin’ till about ten
minutes before I got there; but, between you and me, I never believed that for a
minute. I believe they got up that story between ’em to excuse it off, things
lookin’ so. If I wuzn’t such a friend of hern, and didn’t think such a sight of
her, I wouldn’t mention it for the world. But I think everything of her, and
everybody knows I do, so I feel free to talk about her. “How humbly she has
growed! Don’t you think so? And her mind seems to be kind o’ runnin’ down. For
how under the sun she can think so much of that simple old husband of hern is a
mystery to me, unless she is growin’ foolish. If it was your husband, Cassandra,
nobody would wonder at it, such a splendid, noble-appearin’ gentleman as he is.
But Josiah Allen was always a poor, insignificant-lookin’ creeter; and now he is
the humbliest, and foolishest, and meachin’est-lookin’ creeter I ever see in
human shape. And he looks as old as Grandfather Rickerson, every mite as old,
and he is most ninety. And he is vain as a peahen.”

I jest glanced round at Josiah, and then instinctively I looked away agin. His
countenance was perfectly awful. Truly, the higher we are up the worse it hurts
us to fall down. Bein’ lifted up on such a height of vanity and vain-glory, and
fallin’ down from it so sudden, it most broke his neck (speakin’ in a poetical
and figurative way). I, myself, havin’ had doubts of her all the time, didn’t
feel nigh so worked up and curious, it more sort o’ madded me, it kind o’
operated in that way on me. And so, when she begun agin to run Josiah and me
down to the lowest notch, called us all to naught, made out we wuzn’t hardly fit
to live, and was most fools, and then says agin:

“I wouldn’t say a word aginst ’em for the world if I wuzn’t such a friend to
’em—”

[Illustration: FACE TO FACE.] Then I riz right up, and stood in the open window;
and it come up in front of me some like a pulpit, and I s’pose my mean looked
considerable like a preacher’s when they get carried away with the subject, and
almost by the side of themselves. Alzina Ann quailed the minute she sot her eyes
on me, as much or more than any minister ever made a congregation quail, and,
says she, in tremblin’ tones:

“You know anybody will take liberties with a friend that they wouldn’t with
anybody else.”

Says I, in deep, awful tones, “I never believed in knockin’ folks down to show
off that we are intimate with ’em.”

“Wall,” says she, “you know I do think everything in the world of you. You know
I shouldn’t have said a word aginst you if I wuzn’t such a warm friend of
yourn.”

“Friend!” says I, in awful axents, “friend! Alzina Ann Rickerson, you don’t know
no more about that word than if you never see a dictionary. You don’t know the
true meanin’ of that word no more than a African babe knows about slidin’ down
hill.”

Says I, “The Bible gives a pretty good idee of what it means: it speaks of a man
layin’ down his life for his friend. Dearer to him than his own life. Do you
s’pose such a friendship as that would be a mistrustin’ round, a tryin’ to rake
up every little fault they could lay holt of, and talk ’em over with everybody?
Do you s’pose it would creep round under windows and backbite and slander a
Josiah?”

I entirely forgot for the moment that she had been a talkin’ about me, for truly
abuse heaped upon my pardner seems ten times as hard to bear up under as if it
was heaped upon me. Josiah whispered to me: “That is right, Samantha! give it to
her!” and, upheld by duty and that dear man, I went on, and says I:

“My friends, those I love and who love me, are sacred to me. Their well-being
and their interest is as dear to me as my own. I love to have others praise
them, prize them as I do; and I should jest as soon think of goin’ round tryin’
to rake and scrape sunthin’ to say aginst myself as aginst them.”

Agin I paused for breath, and agin Josiah whispered:

“That is right, Samantha! give it to her!”

Worshipin’ that man as I do, his words was far more inspirin’ and stimulatin’ to
me than root beer. Agin I went on, and says I:

“Maybe it hain’t exactly accordin’ to Scripture, but there is somethin’
respectable in open enmity—in beginnin’ your remarks about anybody honestly, in
this way: ‘Now I detest and despise that man, and I am goin’ to try to relieve
my mind by talkin’ about him jest as bad as I can;’ and then proceed and tear
him to pieces in a straightforward, manly way. I don’t s’pose such a course
would be upheld by the ’postles. But there is a element of boldness and courage
in it amountin’ almost to grandeur, when compared to this kind of talk: ‘I think
everything in the world of that man. I think he is jest as good as he can be,
and he hain’t got a better friend in the world than I am;’ and then go on, and
say all you can to injure him. “Why, a pirate runs up his skeleton and cross-
bars when he is goin’ to rob and pillage. I think, Alzina Ann, if I was in your
place I would make a great effort, and try and be as noble and magnanimous as a
pirate.”

Alzina Ann looked like a white hollyhawk that had been withered by a untimely
frost. But Cassandra looked tickled (she hadn’t forgot her sufferin’s, and the
sufferin’s of Nathan Spooner). And my Josiah looked proud and triumphant in
mean. And he told me in confidence, a goin’ home (and I wouldn’t wish it spoke
of agin, for folks might think it was foolish in me to tell such little admirin’
speeches that a companion will make in moments of harmony and confidence). But
he said that he hadn’t seen me look so good to him as I did when I stood there
in the winder, not for much as thirteen years. Says he:

“Samantha, you looked almost perfectly beautiful.”

That man worships the ground I walk on, and I do hisen. [Illustration]

THE LORDS OF CREATION. Josiah Allen is awful tickled to think he is a man. He
has said so to me, time and agin. And I don’t wonder a mite at it. Men are
first-rate creeters, and considerable good-lookin’. I have always said so. And
they have such glorious chances to be noble and grand, and to _work_ for the
true and the right, that I don’t wonder a mite that Josiah feels just as he duz
feel. And when Josiah tells me how highly tickled he is he is a man—when he says
it in a sort of a pensive and dreamy way, kinder miselanious like—I don’t resent
it in him but on the contrary approve of it in him, highly. But once in a while
he will get to feelin’ kind o’ cross and uppish, and say it to me in a sort of a
twittin’ way, and boastin’. Mebby he will begin by readin’ out loud to me
sunthin’ against wimmen’s rights, in the _World_ or almanac, or some other high-
toned periodical; sometimes it will be awful cuttin’ arguments aginst wimmen.
And after he gets through readin’ it he will speak out in such a sort of a
humiliatin’ way about how awful tickled he is, he is a man, so he can vote, and
help keep the glorious old state of New York on its firm basis of nobility,
morality, and wise economy. Why, says he to me the other afternoon (feelin’
fractious was the cause of his sayin’ it at the time), says he: “Wimmen are
dretful simple creeters; gossipin’, weak, weak-minded, frivolous bein’s;
extravagant, given to foolish display. They don’t mind the cost of things if
they can only make a big show. So different from men, they be. Why,” says he
proudly and boastfully, “you never in your life ketched a man gossipin’ over
their neighbors’ affairs. You never see ’em meddlin’ the least mite with scandal
and evil talkin’. Men are economical, sound-minded. They spend only jest what
they need, what is useful—nothin’ more, not a cent more. Why,” says he, “take it
with wimmen’s foolish extravagance and love of display, what would the glorious
old state of New York come to if it was sot under her rain? And they are so
weak, too,—wimmen be. Why, old Error would take ’em by the nose” (Josiah, I
think, is a practicin’ allegory. He uses flowery rhetoricks and simelys as much
agin as he used to use ’em.) And he repeated agin, with a haughty look: “Old
Error would take ’em by the nose, as it were, and lead ’em into all sorts of
indiscretions, and weakness, and wickedness, before they knew it. “Why, if we
men of New York state had a woman’s incapability of grapplin’ with wrong, and
overthrowin’ of it: if we had her love of scandal and gossip; if we had her
extravagance and love of display, where would the glorious old state of New York
be to-day? Where would her morals be? Where would her finankle and money affairs
be?”

And Josiah leaned back in his chair, and crossed his legs over each other, as
satisfied and contented a crossin’ as I ever see, and says agin:

“If I was ever proud and tickled about anything in my life, Samantha Allen, I am
tickled to think I am a man.”

He had been readin’ a witherin’ piece out of the almanac to me—an awful deep,
skareful piece aginst wimmen’s suffrage. And feelin’ cross and fractious, he did
look so awful overbearin’ and humiliatin’ onto me, on account of my bein’ a
woman, that I sprunted right up and freed my mind to him. I am very close-
mouthed naturally, and say but very little, but I can’t stand everything. While
he was talkin’ I had been a fixin’ a new tow mop that I had been a spinnin’ into
my patented mop-stick, and had jest got it done. And I riz right up and pinted
with it at a picture of the new capitol at Albany that hung over the sink. It
was a noble and commandin’ gesture (though hard to the wrist). It impressed him
dretfully, I could see it did. I had that sort of a lofty way with me as I
gestured, and went on in awful tones to say:

[Illustration: A MONUMENT OF MEN’S ECONOMY.] “When you look at that buildin’,
Josiah Allen, no wonder you talk about wimmen’s extravagance and foolish love of
display, and the econimy and firm common sense of the male voters of the state
of New York, and their wise expenditure of public money. When you and a passel
of other men get together and vote to build a house costin’ nine or ten millions
of dollars to make laws in so small that wimmen might well be excused for
thinkin’ they was made in a wood-shed or behind a barn-door.”

Says I, lowerin’ down my mop-stick, for truly my arm was weary—gesturin’ in
eloquence with a mop-stick is awful fatiguin’—says I, “As long as that monument
of man’s wisdom and econimy stands there, no man need to be afraid that a woman
will ever dast to speak about wantin’ to have any voice in public affairs, any
voice in the expenditure of her own property and income tax. No, she won’t dast
to do it, for man’s thrifty, prudent common sense and superior econimy has been
shown in that buildin’ to a extent that is fairly skareful.”

It is a damper onto anybody when they have been a talkin’ sarcastical and
ironical, to have to come out and explain what you are a doin’. But I see that I
had got to, for ever sense I had lowered my mop-stick and axent, Josiah had
looked chirker and chirker, and now he sot there, lookin’ down at his almanac,
as satisfied and important as a gander walkin’ along in front of nineteen new
goslin’s. He thought I was a praisin’ men. And says I, comin’ out plain, “Look
up here, Josiah Allen, and let me wither you with my glance! I am a talkin’
sarcastical, and would wish to be so understood!”

But I was so excited that before I had fairly got out of that ironical tone, I
fell into it agin deeper than ever (though entirely unbeknown to me), and says
I:

“As to woman’s love of gossip and scandal, and man’s utter aversion to it, let
your mind fall back four years, Josiah Allen, if you think it is strong enough
to bear the fall.”

And I went on in a still more ironicler tone. I don’t know as I ever see a more
ironicler axent in my hull life than mine was as I went on, and says:

“How sweet it must be for men to look back and reflect on it, that while wimmen
gloated over the details of that scandalous gossip, not a man throughout the
nation ever gave it a thought. And while female wimmen, crazy and eager-eyed,
stood in knots at their clubs and on street corners holdin’ each other by the
bunnet-strings a talkin’ it over, and rushed eagerly to the post-office to try
to get the latest details, how sweet to think that the manly editor all over the
land stood up in man’s noble strength and purity, and with a firm eye on the
public morals and the welfare of the young and innocent, and happily ignorant,
refused to gratify woman’s rampent curiosity, and said nothing of the matter,
not a word, in editorial or news column; but all through those long months
filled up their pages with little moral essays, and cuttin’ articles on their
hatred of gossip and scandal. And when, with unsatisfied, itchin’ ears, wives
would question their husbands concernin’ the chief actors in the drama, their
pure-minded husbands would rebuke them and say, ‘Cease, woman, to trouble me. We
know them not. We have as yet spake no word upon the subject, and we will not be
led into speakin’ of it by any woman, not even the wife of our youth’”

[Illustration: ON THE RAGGED EDGE.] Josiah looked meachener and meachener, till,
as I got through, it seemed as if he had got to the very bounds of meach. He
knew well how many times that old mare had gone to Jonesville for the last
_World_, long before its time, so in hopes it would be a little ahead of its
time, so he could get the latest gossip and scandal, and get ahead of old
Gowdey, who took the _Times_, and old Cypher, who took the _Sun_. He knew jest
how that post-office was fairly blocked up with men, pantin’ and sweaty with
runnin’, every time the other mails come in. And he knew well, Josiah Allen did,
how he and seven or eight other old Methodist brethren got to talkin’ about it
so engaged out under the meetin’-house shed, one day, that they forgot
themselves, and never come into meetin’ at all. And we wimmen sisters had to go
out there to find ’em, after the meetin’ was over. He remembered it, Josiah
Allen did, I see that by his mean. [Illustration: UNDER THE MEETING-HOUSE SHED.]
He didn’t say a word, but sot there smit and conscience-struck. And then I
dropped my ironical tone, and took up my awful one, that I use a talkin’ on
principle. I took up my very heaviest and awfulest one, as I resumed and
continued on. “I would talk if I was in your place, Josiah Allen, about wimmen’s
ruinin’ old New York State if they voted. I would soar off into simelys if I was
in your place, and talk about their bein’ led by the nose into wickedness—and
grow eloquent over their weakness and inability to grapple with error—when ten
hundred thousand male voters of the state stand with their hands in their
pockets, or whittlin’ shingles, or tradin’ jack-knives, or readin’ almanacs, and
etcetery, and let an evil go right on in their midst that would have disgraced
old Sodom. “Why, it is a wonder to me that the pure waters of old Oneida don’t
fairly groan as they wash up on the shores that they can’t cleanse from this
impurity, but would if they could, I know. She don’t approve of it, that old
lake don’t—she don’t approve of anything of that kind, no more than I do. She
and I and the other wimmen of the state would make short work of such iniquities
if we had our say. “But there them ten hundred thousand male voters stand, calm
and happy, all round the Community, in rows and clusters; porin’ over almanacs,
and whistlin’ new and various whistles (Josiah had broke out into a very curious
whistle) and contemplate the sin with composure and contentment. “And
superintendents of Sabbath-schools and Young Men’s Christian Associations will
make excursions to admire them and their iniquity, to imbibe bad thoughts and
principles unconsciously, but certainly, as one inevitably must when they behold
a crime masked in beauty, in garments of peace and order and industry. And
railroad managers will carry the young, the easily-impressed, and the innocent
at half price, so eager, seemin’ly, that they should behold sin wreathin’ itself
in flowers, guilt arrayin’ itself in festal robes to lure the unwary footsteps.”

“Wall,” says Josiah, “I guess I’ll go out and milk.”

And I told him he had better. [Illustration]

AN EXERTION AFTER PLEASURE. Wall, the very next mornin’ Josiah got up with a new
idee in his head. And he broached it to me to the breakfast table. They have
been havin’ sights of pleasure exertions here to Jonesville lately. Every week
a’most they would go off on a exertion after pleasure, and Josiah was all up on
end to go too. That man is a well-principled man as I ever see, but if he had
his head he would be worse than any young man I ever see to foller up picnics
and 4th of Julys and camp-meetin’s and all pleasure exertions. But I don’t
encourage him in it. I have said to him time and again: “There is a time for
everything, Josiah Allen, and after anybody has lost all their teeth and every
mite of hair on the top of their head, it is time for ’em to stop goin’ to
pleasure exertions.”

But good land! I might jest as well talk to the wind! If that man should get to
be as old as Mr. Methusler, and be goin’ on a thousand years old, he would prick
up his ears if he should hear of a exertion. All summer long that man has beset
me to go to ’em, for he wouldn’t go without me. Old Bunker Hill himself hain’t
any sounder in principle than Josiah Allen, and I have had to work head-work to
make excuses and quell him down. But last week they was goin’ to have one out on
the lake, on a island, and that man sot his foot down that go he would. We was
to the breakfast-table a talkin’ it over, and says I:

“I shan’t go, for I am afraid of big water, anyway.”

Says Josiah: “You are jest as liable to be killed in one place as another.”

Says I, with a almost frigid air, as I passed him his coffee: “Mebby I shall be
drounded on dry land, Josiah Allen, but I don’t believe it.”

Says he, in a complainin’ tone: “I can’t get you started onto a exertion for
pleasure any way.”

Says I, in a almost eloquent way: “I don’t believe in makin’ such exertions
after pleasure. As I have told you time and agin, I don’t believe in chasin’ of
her up. Let her come of her own free will. You can’t ketch her by chasin’ after
her no more than you can fetch up a shower in a drowth by goin’ out doors and
runnin’ after a cloud up in the heavens above you. Sit down and be patient, and
when it gets ready the refreshin’ rain-drops will begin to fall without none of
your help. And it is jest so with pleasure, Josiah Allen; you may chase her up
over all the oceans and big mountains of the earth, and she will keep ahead of
you all the time; but set down and not fatigue yourself a thinkin’ about her,
and like as not she will come right into your house unbeknown to you.”

“Wall,” says he, “I guess I’ll have another griddle-cake, Samantha.”

And as he took it, and poured the maple-syrup over it, he added gently, but
firmly:

“I shall go, Samantha, to this exertion, and I should be glad to have you
present at it, because it seems jest to me as if I should fall overboard durin’
the day.”

Men are deep. Now that man knew that no amount of religious preachin’ could stir
me up like that one speech. For though I hain’t no hand to coo, and don’t
encourage him in bein’ spoony at all, he knows that I am wrapped almost
completely up in him. I went. Wall, the day before the exertion Kellup Cobb come
into our house of a errant, and I asked him if he was goin’ to the exertion; and
he said he would like to go, but he dassent. “Dassent!” says I. “Why dassent
you?”

“Why,” says he, “how would the rest of the wimmen round Jonesville feel if I
should pick out one woman and wait on her?” Says he bitterly: “I hain’t perfect,
but I hain’t such a cold-blooded rascal as not to have any regard for wimmen’s
feelin’s. I hain’t no heart to spile all the comfort of the day for ten or a
dozen wimmen.”

“Why,” says I, in a dry tone, “one woman would be happy accordin’ to your tell.”

“Yes, one woman happy, and ten or fifteen gauled—bruised in the tenderest
place.”

“On their heads?” says I enquirin’ly. “No,” says he, “their hearts. All the
girls have probable had more or less hopes that I would invite ’em—make a choice
of ’em. But when the blow was struck, when I had passed ’em by and invited some
other, some happier woman, how would them slighted ones feel? How do you s’pose
they would enjoy the day, seein’ me with another woman, and they droopin’ round
without me? That is the reason, Josiah Allen’s wife, that I dassen’t go. It
hain’t the keepin’ of my horse through the day that stops me. For I could carry
a quart of oats and a little jag of hay in the bottom of the buggy. If I had
concluded to pick out a girl and go, I had got it all fixed out in my mind how I
would manage. I had thought it over, while I was ondecided, and duty was a
strugglin’ with me. But I was made to see where the right way for me lay, and I
am goin’ to foller it. Joe Purday is goin’ to have my horse, and give me seven
shillin’s for the use of it and its keepin’. He come to hire it just before I
made up my mind that I hadn’t ort to go. “Of course it is a cross to me. But I
am willin’ to bear crosses for the fair sect. Why,” says he, a comin’ out in a
open, generous way, “I would be willin’, if necessary for the general good of
the fair sect—I would be willin’ to sacrifice ten cents for ’em, or pretty nigh
that, I wish so well to ’em. I _hain’t_ that enemy to ’em that they think I am.
I can’t marry ’em all, Heaven knows I can’t, but I wish ’em well.”

“Wall,” says I, “I guess my dish-water is hot; it must be pretty near bilin’ by
this time.”

And he took the hint and started off. I see it wouldn’t do no good to argue with
him, that wimmen didn’t worship him. For when a feller once gets it into his
head that female wimmen are all after him, you might jest as well dispute the
wind as argue with him. You can’t convince him nor the wind—neither of ’em—so
what’s the use of wastin’ breath on ’em. And I didn’t want to spend a extra
breath that day, anyway, knowin’ I had such a hard day’s work in front of me, a
finishin’ cookin’ up provisions for the exertion, and gettin’ things done up in
the house so I could leave ’em for all day. We had got to start about the middle
of the night, for the lake was 15 miles from Jonesville, and the old mare bein’
so slow, we had got to start an hour or two ahead of the rest. I told Josiah in
the first on’t, that I had jest as lives set up all night, as to be routed out
at two o’clock. But he was so animated and happy at the idee of goin’ that he
looked on the bright side of everything, and he said that we would go to bed
before dark, and get as much sleep as we commonly did. So we went to bed the sun
an hour high. And I was truly tired enough to lay down, for I had worked dretful
hard that day, almost beyond my strength. But we hadn’t more’n got settled down
into the bed, when we heard a buggy and a single wagon stop at the gate, and I
got up and peeked through the window, and I see it was visitors come to spend
the evenin’. Elder Bamber and his family, and Deacon Dobbins’es folks.
[Illustration: ROUTED OUT.] Josiah vowed that he wouldn’t stir one step out of
that bed that night. But I argued with him pretty sharp, while I was throwin’ on
my clothes, and I finally got him started up. I hain’t deceitful, but I thought
if I got my clothes all on, before they came in, I wouldn’t tell ’em that I had
been to bed that time of day. And I did get all dressed up, even to my
handkerchief pin. And I guess they had been there as much as ten minutes before
I thought that I hadn’t took my night-cap off. They looked dretful curious at
me, and I felt awful meachin’. But I jest ketched it off, and never said
nothin’. But when Josiah come out of the bedroom with what little hair he has
got standin’ out in every direction, no two hairs a layin’ the same way, and one
of his galluses a hangin’ most to the floor under his best coat, I up and told
’em. I thought mebby they wouldn’t stay long. But Deacon Dobbins’es folks seemed
to be all waked up on the subject of religion, and they proposed we should turn
it into a kind of a conference meetin’; so they never went home till after ten
o’clock. [Illustration: “MURDER WILL OUT.”]

It was most eleven when Josiah and me got to bed agin. And then jest as I was
gettin’ into a drowse, I heerd the cat in the buttery, and I got up to let her
out. And that rousted Josiah up, and he thought he heerd the cattle in the
garden, and he got up and went out. And there we was a marchin’ round most all
night. And if we would get into a nap, Josiah would think it was mornin’, and he
would start up and go out to look at the clock. He seemed so afraid we would be
belated, and not get to that exertion in time. And there we was on our feet most
all night. I lost myself once, for I dreampt that Josiah was a drowndin’, and
Deacon Dobbins was on the shore a prayin’ for him. It started me so, that I jist
ketched holt of Josiah and hollered. It skairt him awfully, and says he, “What
does ail you, Samantha? I haint been asleep before, to-night, and now you have
rousted me up for good. I wonder what time it is.”

And then he got out of bed again, and went and looked at the clock. It was half
past one, and he said “He didn’t believe we had better go to sleep again, for
fear we would be too late for the exertion, and he wouldn’t miss that for
nothin’.”

“Exertion!” says I, in a awful cold tone. “I should think we had had exertion
enough for one spell.”

[Illustration: SAMANTHA’S DREAM.] But as bad and wore out as Josiah felt bodily,
he was all animated in his mind about what a good time he was a goin’ to have.
He acted foolish, and I told him so. I wanted to wear my brown and black gingham
and a shaker, but Josiah insisted that I should wear a new lawn dress that he
had brought me home as a present, and I had jest got made up. So, jest to please
him, I put it on, and my best bonnet. And that man, all I could do and say,
would put on a pair of pantaloons I had been a makin’ for Thomas Jefferson. They
was gettin’ up a milatary company to Jonesville, and these pantaloons was blue,
with a red stripe down the sides—a kind of a uniform. Josiah took a awful fancy
to ’em, and says he:

“I will wear ’em, Samantha; they look so dressy.”

Says I: “They hain’t hardly done. I was goin’ to stitch that red stripe on the
left leg on again. They hain’t finished as they ort to be, and I would not wear
’em. It looks vain in you.”

Says he: “I will wear ’em, Samantha. I will be dressed up for once.”

I didn’t contend with him. Thinks I: we are makin’ fools of ourselves by goin’
at all, and if he wants to make a little bigger fool of himself, by wearin’ them
blue pantaloons, I won’t stand in his light. And then I had got some machine oil
onto ’em, so I felt that I had got to wash ’em, anyway, before Thomas J. took
’em to wear. So he put ’em on. I had good vittles, and a sight of ’em. The
basket wouldn’t hold ’em all, so Josiah had to put a bottle of red ross-berry
jell into the pocket of his dress-coat, and lots of other little things, such as
spoons and knives and forks, in his pantaloons and breast-pockets. He looked
like Captain Kidd, armed up to the teeth, and I told him so. But good land! he
would have carried a knife in his mouth if I had asked him to, he felt so neat
about goin’, and boasted so on what a splendid exertion it was goin’ to be. We
got to the lake about eight o’clock, for the old mare went slow. We was about
the first ones there, but they kep’ a comin’, and before ten o’clock we all got
there. The young folks made up their minds they would stay and eat their dinner
in a grove on the mainland. But the majority of the old folks thought it was
best to go and set our tables where we laid out to in the first place. Josiah
seemed to be the most rampant of any of the company about goin’. He said he
shouldn’t eat a mouthful if he didn’t eat it on that island. He said, what was
the use of goin’ to a pleasure exertion at all if you didn’t try to take all the
pleasure you could. So about twenty old fools of us sot sail for the island.
[Illustration: FACING TROUBLE.] I had made up my mind from the first on’t to
face trouble, so it didn’t put me out so much when Deacon Dobbins, in gettin’
into the boat, stepped onto my new lawn dress, and tore a hole in it as big as
my two hands, and ripped it half offen the waist. But Josiah havin’ felt so
animated and tickled about the exertion, it worked him up awfully when, jest
after we had got well out onto the lake, the wind took his hat off and blew it
away out onto the lake. He had made up his mind to look so pretty that day that
it worked him up awfully. And then the sun beat down onto him; and if he had had
any hair onto his head it would have seemed more shady. [Illustration: BOUND FOR
THE ISLAND.] But I did the best I could by him. I stood by him and pinned on his
red bandanna handkerchief onto his head. But as I was a fixin’ it on, I see
there was sunthin’ more than mortification ailed him. The lake was rough and the
boat rocked, and I see he was beginnin’ to be awful sick. He looked deathly.
Pretty soon I felt bad, too. Oh! the wretchedness of that time. I have enjoyed
poor health considerable in my life, but never did I enjoy so much sickness in
so short a time as I did on that pleasure exertion to that island. I s’pose our
bein’ up all night a’most made it worse. When we reached the island we was both
weak as cats. I sot right down on a stun and held my head for a spell, for it
did seem as if it would split open. After a while I staggered up onto my feet,
and finally I got so I could walk straight, and sense things a little. Though it
was tejus work to walk, anyway, for we had landed on a sand-bar, and the sand
was so deep it was all we could do to wade through it, and it was as hot as hot
ashes ever was. Then I began to take the things out of my dinner-basket. The
butter had all melted, so we had to dip it out with a spoon. And a lot of water
had swashed over the side of the boat, so my pies and tarts and delicate cake
and cookies looked awful mixed up. But no worse than the rest of the company’s
did. But we did the best we could, and the chicken and cold meat bein’ more
solid had held together quite well, so there was some pieces of it considerable
hull, though it was all very wet and soppy. But we separated ’em out as well as
we could, and begun to make preparations to eat. We didn’t feel so animated
about eatin’ as we should if we hadn’t been so sick to our stomachs. But we felt
as if we must hurry, for the man that owned the boat said he knew it would rain
before night, by the way the sun scalded. [Illustration: ON THE BEACH.] There
wasn’t a man or a woman there but what the presperation and sweat jest poured
down their faces. We was a haggard and melancholy-lookin’ set. There was a piece
of woods a little ways off, but it was up quite a rise of ground, and there
wasn’t one of us but what had the rheumatiz more or less. We made up a fire on
the sand, though it seemed as if it was hot enough to steep the tea and coffee
as it was. After we got the fire started, I histed a umberell and sot down under
it, and fanned myself hard, for I was afraid of a sunstroke. Wall, I guess I had
set there ten minutes or more, when all of a sudden I thought, where is Josiah?
I hadn’t seen him since we had got there. I riz up and asked the company almost
wildly if they had seen my companion, Josiah. They said, “no, they hadn’t.”

But Celestine Wilkin’s little girl, who had come with her grandpa and grandma
Gowdy, spoke up, and says she:

“I seen him goin’ off towards the woods. He acted dretful strange, too; he
seemed to be a walkin’ off sideways.”

“Had the sufferin’s he had undergone made him delerious?” says I to myself; and
then I started off on the run towards the woods, and old Miss Bobbet, and Miss
Gowdy, and Sister Bamber, and Deacon Dobbins’es wife all rushed after me. Oh,
the agony of them two or three minutes! my mind so distracted with fourbodin’s,
and the presperation and sweat a pourin’ down. But all of a sudden, on the edge
of the woods, we found him. Miss Gowdy weighin’ a little less than me, mebby 100
pounds or so, had got a little ahead of me. He sot backed up against a tree, in
a awful cramped position, with his left leg under him. He looked dretful
uncomfortable. But when Miss Gowdy hollered out:

“Oh, here you be. We have been skairt about you. What is the matter?”

He smiled a dretful sick smile, and says he:

“Oh, I thought I would come out here and meditate a spell. It was always a real
treat to me to meditate.”

[Illustration: A DISCOURAGED EXCURSIONIST.] Just then I come up a pantin’ for
breath, and as the wimmen all turned to face me, Josiah scowled at me, and shook
his fist at them four wimmen, and made the most mysterious motions of his hands
towards ’em. But the minute they turned round he smiled in a sickish way, and
pretended to go to whistlin’. Says I, “What is the matter, Josiah Allen? What
are you off here for?”

“I am a meditatin’, Samantha.”

Says I, “Do you come down and jine the company this minute, Josiah Allen. You
was in a awful takin’ to come with ’em, and what will they think to see you act
so?”

The wimmen happened to be a lookin’ the other way for a minute, and he looked at
me as if he would take my head off, and made the strangest motions towards ’em;
but the minute they looked at him he would pretend to smile, that deathly smile.
Says I, “Come, Josiah Allen, we’re goin’ to get dinner right away, for we are
afraid it will rain.”

“Oh, wall,” says he, “a little rain, more or less, hain’t a goin’ to hender a
man from meditatin’.”

I was wore out, and says I, “Do you stop meditatin’ this minute, Josiah Allen!”

Says he, “I won’t stop, Samantha. I let you have your way a good deal of the
time; but when I take it into my head to meditate, you hain’t a goin’ to break
it up.”

Jest at that minute they called to me from the shore to come that minute to find
some of my dishes. And we had to start off. But oh! the gloom of my mind that
was added to the lameness of my body. Them strange motions and looks of Josiah
wore on me. Had the sufferin’s of the night, added to the trials of the day,
made him crazy? I thought more’n as likely as not I had got a luny on my hands
for the rest of my days. And then, oh how the sun did scald down onto me, and
the wind took the smoke so into my face that there wasn’t hardly a dry eye in my
head. And then a perfect swarm of yellow wasps lit down onto our vittles as
quick as we laid ’em down, so you couldn’t touch a thing without runnin’ a
chance to be stung. Oh, the agony of that time! the distress of that pleasure
exertion! But I kep’ to work, and when we had got dinner most ready, I went back
to call Josiah again. Old Miss Bobbet said she would go with me, for she thought
she see a wild turnip in the woods there, and her Shakespeare had a awful cold,
and she would try to dig one to give him. So we started up the hill again. He
set in the same position, all huddled up, with his leg under him, as
uncomfortable a lookin’ creeter as I ever see. But when we both stood in front
of him, he pretended to look careless and happy, and smiled that sick smile.
Says I, “Come, Josiah Allen, dinner is ready.”

“Oh! I hain’t hungry,” says he. “The table will probable be full. I had jest as
lieves wait.”

“Table full!” says I. “You know jest as well as I do that we are eatin’ on the
ground. Do you come and eat your dinner this minute.”

“Yes, do come,” says Miss Bobbet, “we can’t get along without you.”

“Oh!” says he, with that ghastly smile, a pretendin’ to joke, “I have got plenty
to eat here—I can eat muskeeters.”

The air was black with ’em, I couldn’t deny it. “The muskeeters will eat you,
more likely,” says I. “Look at your face and hands; they are all covered with
’em.”

“Yes, they have eat considerable of a dinner out of me, but I don’t begrech ’em.
I hain’t small enough, nor mean enough, I hope, to begrech ’em one good meal.”

Miss Bobbet started off in search of her wild turnip, and after she had got out
of sight Josiah whispered to me with a savage look, and a tone sharp as a sharp
axe:

“Can’t you bring forty or fifty more wimmen up here? You couldn’t come here a
minute, could you, without a lot of other wimmen tight to your heels?”

I begun to see daylight, and after Miss Bobbet had got her wild turnip and some
spignut, I made some excuse to send her on ahead, and then Josiah told me all
about why he had gone off by himself alone, and why he had been a settin’ in
such a curious a position all the time since we had come in sight of him.
[Illustration: A DESPERATE SITUATION.] It seems he had sot down on that bottle
of rass-berry jell. That red stripe on the side wasn’t hardly finished, as I
said, and I hadn’t fastened my thread properly, so when he got to pullin’ at ’em
to try to wipe off the jell, the thread started, and bein’ sewed on a machine,
that seam jest ripped right open from top to bottom. That was what he had walked
off sideways towards the woods for. But Josiah Allen’s wife hain’t one to desert
a companion in distress. I pinned ’em up as well as I could, and I didn’t say a
word to hurt his feelin’s, only I jest said this to him, as I was a fixin’ em: I
fastened my grey eye firmly and almost sternly onto him, and says I:

“Josiah Allen, is this pleasure?” Says I, “You was determined to come.”

“Throw that in my face agin, will you? What if I was? There goes a pin into my
leg! I should think I had suffered enough without your stabbin’ of me with
pins.”

“Wall then, stand still, and not be a caperin’ round so. How do you s’pose I can
do anything with you a tousin’ round so?”

“Wall, don’t be so aggravatin’ then.”

I fixed ’em as well as I could, but they looked pretty bad, and there they was
all covered with jell, too. What to do I didn’t know. But finally I told him I
would put my shawl onto him. So I doubled it up corner-ways as big as I could,
so it almost touched the ground behind, and he walked back to the table with me.
I told him it was best to tell the company all about it, but he jest put his
foot down that he wouldn’t, and I told him if he wouldn’t that he must make his
own excuses to the company about wearin’ the shawl. So he told ’em he always
loved to wear summer shawls; he thought it made a man look so dressy. But he
looked as if he would sink all the time he was a sayin’ it. They all looked
dretful curious at him, and he looked as meachin’ as if he had stole sheep—and
meachin’er—and he never took a minute’s comfort, nor I nuther. He was sick all
the way back to the shore, and so was I. And jest as we got into our wagons and
started for home, the rain began to pour down. The wind turned our old umberell
inside out in no time. My lawn dress was most spilte before, and now I give up
my bonnet. And I says to Josiah:

“This bonnet and dress are spilte, Josiah Allen, and I shall have to buy some
new ones.”

“Wall! wall! who said you wouldn’t?” he snapped out. But it wore on him. Oh! how
the rain poured down. Josiah havin’ nothin’ but a handkerchief on his head felt
it more than I did. I had took a apron to put on a gettin’ dinner, and I tried
to make him let me pin it on his head. But says he, firmly:

“I hain’t proud and haughty, Samantha, but I do feel above ridin’ out with a
pink apron on for a hat.”

“Wall then,” says I, “get as wet as sop if you had ruther.”

I didn’t say no more, but there we jest sot and suffered. The rain poured down;
the wind howled at us; the old mare went slow; the rheumatiz laid holt of both
of us; and the thought of the new bonnet and dress was a wearin’ on Josiah, I
knew. [Illustration: HOMEWARD BOUND.] There wasn’t a house for the first seven
miles, and after we got there I thought we wouldn’t go in, for we had got to get
home to milk, anyway, and we was both as wet as we could be. After I had beset
him about the apron we didn’t say hardly a word for as much as thirteen miles or
so; but I did speak once, as he leaned forward, with the rain drippin’ offen his
bandanna handkerchief onto his blue pantaloons. I says to him in stern tones:

“Is this pleasure, Josiah Allen?”

[Illustration: THE END OF THE EXERTION.] He give the old mare a awful cut, and
says he: “I’d like to know what you want to be so agrevatin’ for.”

I didn’t multiply any more words with him, only as we drove up to our door-step,
and he helped me out into a mud-puddle, I says to him:

“Mebby you’ll hear to me another time, Josiah Allen.”

And I’ll bet he will. I hain’t afraid to bet a ten cent bill that that man won’t
never open his mouth to me again about a pleasure exertion. [Illustration]

A VISIT TO THE CHILDREN. It was a fair and lovely forenoon, and I thought we
would go and spend the day with the childern. Kitty Smith had gone the day
before to visit a aunt on her mother’s side to Log London. She was a layin’ out
to stay 3 or 4 weeks, and I declare, it seemed lonesome as a dog—and lonesomer.
And I told Josiah that I guessed we would go to Jonesville and visit the
childern, for we hadn’t been there to stay all day with ’em for a number of
weeks. He sort o’ hung back, and said he didn’t know how to spend the time. But
I only says, decided like and firm, and in a solemn and warnin’ way:

“You can do as you are a mind to, Josiah Allen, and as your conscience will let
you. But croup is round, that I know, and I worried last night a good deal about
little Samantha Joe.”

Says he: “I will hitch up the old mare this minute, Samantha, and do you throw
your things on as quick as you can.” And he started for the barn almost on the
run. My natural nature is very truthful and transparent,—almost like rain-
water,—and little figurative expressions like these are painful to me—very. But
every woman who has a man to deal with for above twenty years will know that
they _have_ to use ’em in order to move men as men ort to be moved.
[Illustration: MOVING JOSIAH.] I won’t come right out and lie for nobody—man or
beast. Croup _was_ round promiscus in Jonesville, and I _had_ worried about
little Samantha Joe. But my conscience told me, as I tied up my back hair, and
hooked up my dress, that I had talked in a sort of a parable way. And it smote
me; not so hard as it had smote; but hardish. And if there ever was a old tyrant
on the face of the earth, my conscience is one. It won’t let me do nothin’ the
least mite out of the way without poundin’ me almost to death. Sometimes I get
fairly tuckered out with it. Wall, I had jest finished hookin’ up my dress, and
was a pinnin’ on my collar at the lookin’-glass, when, happenin’ to throw one of
the eyes of my spectacles out of the window, I see Kellup Cobb a drivin’ up; and
he hitched the hearse to the front gate, and come in. He looked quite well for
him. His hair and whiskers was a good, dark, tan color, bearin’ a little on the
orange. Quite a becomin’ color to him, he bein’ so saller. He inquired where
Kitty was. And then he wanted to know most the first thing he said, and his mean
looked anxious as he said it, “If her health was a keepin’ up?”

“Why, yes,” says I, “why shouldn’t it?”

“Wall,” says he, “I was obleeged to go away on business, and couldn’t get here
last week, and I didn’t know how she would take it. I should have wrote to her,”
says he, “but not havin’ quite made up my mind whether I would marry her or not,
I thought it would be cruel to her to pay her such a close attention as a letter
would be. It wuzn’t the postage that I minded. Three cents wouldn’t have stood
in the way of my writin’ to her, if I had made up my mind full and complete.
“But,” says he, a knittin’ up his forward hard, “them two old reasons that did
stand in the way of my marryin’ stands there now—stands there a headin’ of me
off. It hain’t so much because she is a poor girl that I hesitate. No, that
wouldn’t influence me much, for she is sound and healthy, good to work, and
would pay her way. No, it is them wimmen! What will be done with the rest of the
wimmen that I shall have to disapinte? “But,” says he, lookin’ gloomy into the
oven, “I have jest about made up my mind that I will marry her, whether or no,
and leave the event to Providence. If I do, they’ll have to stand it somehow.
They hadn’t ort to expect, and if they used a mite of reason they wouldn’t
expect, that a man would sacrifice himself always, and keep single forever,
ruther than hurt their feelin’s.”

Says he, lookin’ as bitter and gloomy into that oven as a oven was ever looked
into, “Even if ten or a dozen of ’em die off, the law can’t touch me for it, for
if ever a man has been careful, I have been. Look at my clothes, now,” says he,
lookin’ down on himself with a sort of a self-righteous, admirin’ sort of a
look, “I wore these old clothes to-day jest out of solid principle and goodness
towards wimmen. It wuzn’t to be savin’, and because it looked like rain. No, I
knew I had got to be round amongst wimmen a good deal, to-day, a settlin’ up
accounts, and so I wore this old overcoat of father’s. I have got a brand new
one, but I wouldn’t wear it round amongst ’em. [Illustration: DRESSED FOR THE
OCCASION.] “I am on my guard, and they can’t come back on me for damages. They
have only got themselves to blame if they are ondone. They might have realized
that they couldn’t all have got me. And I have jest about made up my mind that I
will run the resk and marry her. She is to Log London, you say. It happens jest
right,” says he, a brightenin’ up. “There is a funeral down that way, to-morrow,
not more than thirteen or fourteen miles from there, and I will go round that
way on my way back, and call and see her.”

I declare his talk sickened me so that I was fairly sick to my stomach. It was
worse than thoroughwort or lobelia, and so I told Josiah afterwards. But I
didn’t say a word back to him, for I knew I might jest as well try to convince
the wind right in a whirlwind that it hadn’t better blow, as to convince him
that he was a fool. But, as he got up to go, I told him that I had a little mite
of business of my own with him. You see our new minister, Elder Bamber, is a
likely feller as ever drawed the breath of life, and hard-workin’—couldn’t get a
cent of his pay from the meetin’-house. They had got into a kind of a quarrel,
the men had, and wouldn’t pay what they had signed. And I proposed to the women,
the female sisters, that we should try to get him up a present of 50 dollars to
last ’em through the storm—the meetin’-house storm. For they was fairly
sufferin’ for provisions, and clothes, and stuff. And as Kellup was a member of
the same meetin’-house, and talked and sung powerful in conference meetin’s, I
thought it wouldn’t be no more than right for me to tackle him, and get him to
pay a little sunthin’ towards it. So I tackled him. “Wall, Sister Allen,” says
he, in that hypocritical, sneakin’ way of hisen (he was always powerful at
repeatin’ Scriptural texts), “I can say with Peter, ‘Silver and gold have I
none, but such as I have I will give unto thee.’”

“Wall, what is it?” says I. “What are you goin’ to give?”

Says he, “I will work for the cause. If religion is worth anything,” says he, a
rollin’ up the whites of his eyes, “it is worth workin’ for—it is worth makin’
sacrifices for.”

“So I think,” says I, in a very dry tone. “And I want a half a dollar out of
you.”

“No!” says he, kinder puttin’ his hand over his pocket, as if he was afraid a
cent would drop out of it. “No! I will do better than that. To-night is our
conference meetin’, and I will talk powerful on the subject.”

Says I, coldly: “Wind is a powerful element, but it hain’t a goin’ to blow
comfort into the Elder’s household, nor meat and flour into his empty buttery-
shelves, nor fire-wood into his wood-box. Song and oritery are good in their
place, but they hain’t goin’ to feed the starvin’ or clothe the naked.” Says I,
in more reasonable tones: “As I said, wind is good in its place—I hain’t a word
to say aginst it—but jest at the present time money is goin’ to do the Elder
more good than the same amount of wind can.” And says I, in the same firm but
mild tone: “I want a half a dollar out of you.” Says I: “The Elder is fairly
sufferin’ for things to eat and drink and wear. And you know,” says I, “that if
ever there was a good, earnest, Christian man, it is Elder Bamber. He is a
Christian from the top of his head to the sole of his boots. He don’t wear his
religion on the top of his head for a hat, and take it off Sunday nights. It
goes clear through him, and works out from the inside.”

“Yes,” says Kellup, a clutchin’ his pocket with a firmer grip, “he is a worthy
man, and I should think the thought of his noble and lofty mission would be meat
and drink to him. It probable is. It would be to me—and clothin’. Oh!” says he,
a rollin’ up his eyes still further in his head, “oh! the thought of savin’
souls; what a comfort that must be to the Elder; what a rich food for him.”

Says I, in colder tones than I had used yet, for I was fairly wore out with him:
“The Elder can’t eat souls, and if he could he would starve to death on such
souls as your’n, if he eat one every five minutes.”

He didn’t say nothin’ more, but onhitched his hearse and started off. I don’t
know but he was mad, and don’t care. But though I didn’t get a cent from him or
his father, I raised 50 dollars with my own hands and the might of my shoulder-
blades, and sent it to him in a letter marked, “From friends of religion and the
Elder.”

Wall, jest as Josiah driv up with the old mare, a hull load of company driv up
from the other way—come to spend the day. I was disappinted, but I didn’t
murmur. I took ’em as a dispensation, killed a fat duck, and made considerable
of a fuss; done well by ’em. They come from a distance, and had to start for
home the sun 2 hours high. And I told Josiah it was so pleasant I guessed we
would go to Jonesville then, and he (havin’ that babe on his mind) consented to
at once and immediately. So we sot off. About half a mile this side of
Jonesville we met Thomas J. and Maggie jest a settin’ off for a ride. We stopped
our 2 teams and visited a spell back and forth. I wouldn’t let ’em go back home,
as they both offered and insisted on, but made an appintment to take dinner with
’em the next day, Providence and the weather permittin’. And then we drove on to
Whitfield’s. And I don’t never want to see a prettier sight than I see as we
driv up. [Illustration: A ROADSIDE VISIT.] There Tirzah Ann sot out on the
portico, all dressed up in a cool mull dress. It was one I had bought her before
she was married, but it was washed and done up clean and fresh, and looked as
good as new. It was pure white, with little bunches of blue forget-me-nots on
it, and she had a bunch of the same posys and some pink rose-buds in her hair,
and on the bosom of her frock. There is a hull bed of ’em in the yard. She is a
master hand for dressin’ up and lookin’ pretty, but at the same time is very
equinomical, and a first-rate housekeeper. She looked the very picture of health
and enjoyment—plump and rosy, and happy as a queen; and she was a queen. Queen
of her husband’s heart; and settin’ up on that pure and lofty throne of constant
and deathless love, she looked first-rate, and felt so. [Illustration: A HAPPY
HOME.] It had been a very warm day, nearly hot, and Whitfield I s’pose had come
home kinder tired. So he had stretched himself out at full length on the grass
in front of the portico, and there he lay with his hands under his head, a
laughin’, and a lookin’ up into Tirzah Ann’s face as radiant and lovin’ as if
she was the sun and he a sun-flower. But that simely, though very poetical and
figurative, don’t half express the good looks, and health, and rest, and
happiness on both their faces, as they looked at each other, and then at that
_babe_. That most beautifulest and intelligentest of childern was a toddlin’
round, first up to one of ’em and then the other, with her bright eyes a
dancin’, and her cheeks red as roses. You see their yard is so large and shady,
and the little thing havin’ got so it can run round alone, is out in the yard a
playin’ most all the time, and it is dretful good for her. And she enjoys it the
best that ever was, and Tirzah Ann enjoys it, too, for after she gets her work
done up, all she has to do is to set in the door and watch the little thing a
playin’ round, and bein’ perfectly happy. The minute she ketched sight of the
old mare and me and her grandpa, she run down to the gate as fast as her little
feet could carry her. She had a little pink dress on, and pink stockin’s, and
white shoes, and a white ruffled apron, with her pretty, shining hair a hangin’
down in curls over it, and she did, jest as sure as I live and breathe—she _did_
look almost too beautiful for earth. I guess she got a pretty good kissin’ from
Josiah and me, and then Whitfield and Tirzah Ann come a hurryin’ down to the
gate, glad enough to see us, as they always be. [Illustration: LITTLE SAMANTHA
JOE.] Josiah, of course, had to take that beautiful child for a little ride, and
Whitfield said he guessed he would go, too. But I got out and went in, and as we
sot there on the stoop, Tirzah Ann up and told me what she and Whitfield was a
goin’ to do. They was goin’ off for the summer for a rest and change. And I
thought from the first minute she spoke of it that it was foolish in her. Now
rests are as likely things as ever was; so are changes. But I have said, and I
say still, that I had ruther lay down to home, as the poet says, “on my own
delightful feather-bed,” with a fan and a newspaper, and take a rest, than dress
up and travel off 2 or 300 milds through the burnin’ sun, with achin’ body, wet
with presperation and sweat, to take it. It seems to me that I would get more
rest out of the former than out of the more latter course and proceedin’.
Howsumever, everybody to their own mind. Likewise with changes: I have said, and
I say still, that changes are likely and respectable, if you can get holt of
’em; but how can you? Havin’ such powerful and eloquent emotions as I have,
havin’ such hefty principles a performin’ inside of my mind, enjoyin’ such
idees, and faiths, and aspirations, and longin’s, and hopes, and despairs, and
everything—I s’pose that is what makes me think that what is goin’ on round me,
the outside of me, hain’t of so much consequence. I seem to live inside of
myself (as it were) more than I do on the outside. And so it don’t seem of so
much consequence what the lay of the land round me may happen to be, whether it
is sort o’ hilly and mountainous or more level-like; or whether steam-cars may
be a goin’ by me (on the outside of me), or boats a sailin’ round me, or milk-
wagons. You see the real change, the real rest, would have to be on the inside,
and not on the outside. Nobody, no matter how much their weight may be by the
steel-yards, can carry round such grand, hefty principles as I carry round
without gettin’ tired; or enjoy the lofty hopes, and desires, and aspirations
that I enjoy, and meditate on all the sad, and mysterious, and puzzlin’
conundrums of the old world as I meditate on ’em, without gettin’ fairly
tuckered out. Great hearts enjoy greatly and suffer greatly. And so sometimes,
when heart-tired and brain-weary, if I could quell down them soarin’ emotions
and make ’em lay still for a spell, and shet up my heart like a buro-draw, and
hang up the key, and onscrew my head and lay it onto the manteltry-piece, then I
could go off and enjoy a change that would be refreshin’ and truly delightful.
But as it is, from Jonesville clear to the Antipithies, the puzzlin’
perplexities, the woes, and the cares of the old world foller right on after us
tight as our shadders. Our pure and soarin’ desires, our blind mistakes, and
deep despairs; our longin’s, strivin’s, memories, heartaches; all the joys and
burdens of a soul, has to be carried by us up the steepest mountains or down
into the lowest vallies. The same emotions that was a performin’ inside of our
minds down in the Yo Semity, will be a performin’ jest the same up on the
Pyramids. The same questionin’ eyes, sort o’ glad and sort o’ sorrowful, that
looked out over New York Harbor will look out over the Bay of Naples—and then
beyond ’em both, out into a deeper, more mysterious ocean, the boundless sea
that lays beyond everything, and before everything, and round everything, that
great, misty sea of the Unknown, the Hereafter; tryin’ to see what we hain’t
never seen, and wonderin’ when we shall see it, and how? and where? and
wherefore? and if things be so? and why? Tryin’ to hear the murmur of them waves
that we know are a washin’ up round us on every side, that nobody hain’t never
heard, but we know are there; the mighty Past, the mysterious Future. Tryin’ to
ketch a glimpse of them shadowy sails that are floatin’ in and out forever more,
with a freight of immortal souls, bearin’ them here, and away. We know we have
sailed on ’em once, and have got to again—and can’t ketch no glimpse on
’em—can’t know nothin’ about ’em—sealed baby lips, silent, dead lips, never
tellin’ nothin’ about ’em. Each soul has got to embark and sail out alone, out
into the silence and the shadows—sail out into the mysterious Beyond.
[Illustration: JOSIAH STILL.] We can’t get away from ourselves, and get a real
change, nohow, unless we knock our heads in and make idiots and lunys of
ourselves. Movin’ our bodies round here and there is only a shadow of a change,
a mockery, as if I should dress up my Josiah in soldier coats or baby clothes.
There he is inside of ’em, clear Josiah, no change in him, only a little
difference in his outside circumstances. Standin’ as we do on a narrow belt of
land, which is the Present, and them endless seas a beatin’ round us on every
side of us, bottomless, shoreless, ageless—and we a not seein’ either on ’em;
under them awful, and lofty, and curious circumstances, what difference does it
really make to us whether we are a layin’ down or a standin’ up—whether we are
on a hill, or down in a valley—whether a lot on us get together in cities and
villages, like aunts on a aunt-hill; or whether we are more alone, like storks
or ostridges? This is a very deep and curious subject. I have talked eloquent on
it, I know, and my readers know. But I could go on and filosifize on it jest as
powerful and deep for hours and hours. But I have already episoded too far, and
to resoom and continue on. I told Tirzah Ann that I thought it was foolish in
her. And she said, “It was very genteel to go away from home for the summer.”
She said, “Miss Skidmore was goin’.” She is the other lawyer’s wife to
Jonesville, and Tirzah Ann said she was bound to not come in behind her. She
said, “Miss Skidmore said that nobody who made any pretensions to bein’ genteel
stayed to home durin’ the heated term.”

“What do they go away for, mostly?” says I, in a cool tone, for I didn’t over
and above like the plan. “Oh! for health and—”

“But,” says I, “hain’t you and Whitfield enjoyin’ good health?”

“Never could be better health than we both have got,” says she; “but folks go
for health and pleasure.”

“Hain’t you a takin’ comfort now,” says I, “solid comfort?”

“Yes,” says she, “nobody can be happier than Whitfield and I are every day of
our lives.”

“Wall,” says I coolly, “then you had better let well enough alone.”

“But,” says she, “folks go for a rest.”

“Rest from what?” says I. “It seems to me that I never in my hull life see
nobody look more rested than you and Whitfield do.” Says I, askin’ her right out
plain, “Don’t you feel rested, Tirzah Ann?”

“Why yes,” she said, “she did.”

“Wall,” says I, “I knew you did from your looks. Don’t you and Whitfield feel
fresh and vigorous and rested every mornin’, ready to take up the labor of the
day with a willin’ heart? Do you either of you have any more work to do than is
for your health to do? Don’t you find plenty of time for rest and recreation
every day as you go along?” Says I: “It is with health jest as it is with
cleanin’ house. I don’t believe in lettin’ things get all run down, and nasty,
and then once a year tear everything to pieces, and do up the hull cleanin’ of a
year to once, and then let everything go again for another year. No! I believe
in keepin’ everything slick and comfortable day by day, and year by year. In
housens, have a daily mixture of cleanin’ and comfort. In health, have a daily
mixture of labor, recreation, and rest. I mean for folks like you and Whitfield,
who can do so. Of course some have to work beyond their strength, and stiddy;
let them take their rest and comfort when they can get it; better take it once a
year, like a box of pills, than not at all. But as for you and Whitfield, I say
again, in the almost immortal words of the poet, ‘better let well enough
alone.’”

[Illustration: THE ANNUAL TURNOUT.] “But,” says she, “I want to do as other
folks do. I am bound not to let Miss Skidmore get the upper hands of me. I want
to be genteel.”

“Wall,” says I, “if you are determined to foller them paths, Tirzah Ann, you
mustn’t come to your ma for advice. She knows nothin’ about them pathways; she
never walked in ’em.”

I could see jest where it was. I could see that Miss Skidmore was to the bottom
of it all—she and Tirzah Ann’s ambition. I could lay the hull on it to them 2.
The Skidmores hadn’t lived to Jonesville but a little while, and Miss Skidmore
was awful big-feelin’ and was determined to lead the fashion. She wouldn’t
associate with hardly anybody; wouldn’t speak to only jest a few. And when she
wuz to parties, or anywhere, she would set kind o’ stunny and motionless—some as
if her head was stiff and she couldn’t bend it. [Illustration: MISS SKIDMORE.]
Why, I s’posed the first time I see her appear—it was to quite a big party to
Elder Bamber’ses—why, I s’posed jest as much as if I had it on myself, that she
had a stiff neck; s’posed she had took cold, and it had settled there. I never
mistrusted it was tryin’ to act genteel that ailed her. I see when I was
introduced to her that she acted sort o’ curious and stunny, and I stood by and
watched her (sunthin’ as I would a small circus), and I see that she acted in
jest that way to most everybody that was introduced to her. And I knew, judgin’
her by myself, that she would want to move her head more and act more limber if
she could, so I up and told her in a friendly way, that if I was in her place I
would steep up some camfrey roots, and take ’em three times a day; and at night
I would take some burdock leaves, and wilt ’em, and bind ’em on her neck. Says
I:

“Burdock will take that stiffness out of your neck if anything will.”

But Sister Bamber winked me out, and told me what ailed her; told me she kep’
her head up in that sort of a stiff way, and sot in them stunny, motionless
autitudes and postures, in order to be genteel and aristocratic. And I felt like
a fool to think I had been a recommendin’ burdock for it. For I knew in a minute
that when anybody held their neck craned up in that way in order to act genteel
and aristocratic—good land! I knew burdock couldn’t help ’em any. I knew it was
common sense they wanted, and a true dignity, and the sweet courtesy of gentle
breeding,—burdock couldn’t help ’em. Why, some said she felt above old Skidmore
himself, and thought she was kinder stoopin’ to associate with him, and talk
with him. I don’t know how true that was, but I know she tried to be dretful
genteel, and put on sights of airs. And Tirzah Ann bein’ ambitious, and knowin’
she looked a good deal better than she did, and knew as much agin’, and knowin’
that Whitfield was as good agin a lawyer as her husband was, and 3 times as well
off, wasn’t goin’ to stand none of her airs. She did seem to sort o’ look down
on Tirzah Ann, and feel above her, and it madded Tirzah Ann awfully, for she
never felt as I did on that subject. Now if anybody wanted to put on airs, and
feel above me, I shouldn’t do a thing to break it up—not a thing. I should
filosofize on it in this way: because they felt as if they was better than I
was, that wouldn’t make ’em so; if it would, why I should probable get up more
interest on the subject. But it wouldn’t. It wouldn’t make ’em a mite better,
nor me a mite worse, so what hurt would it do, anyway? It wouldn’t hender me
from feelin’ as cool and contented and happy as a cluster cowcumber at sunrise,
and it would probable make them feel sort o’ comfortable and good, so I should
be glad they felt. But not bein’ jealous dispositioned by nater, and and havin’
so many other things to think of—soarin’ and divin’ so high and deep into
curious and solemn subjects as I have soared and doven, I s’pose folks might
feel milds and milds above me, and I not mistrust what they was a doin’; never
find it out in the world unless I was told of it. Now when Tirzah Ann was about
14 or 15, she that was Keturah Allen, a haughty, high-headed sort of a woman,
come to our house a visitin’; stayed most all winter. She was a woman who had
seen better days; had been quite fore-handed; and she kep’ her fore-handed ways
when her four hands (as you may say in a figirative way) was gone and used up.
She was real poor now, hadn’t nothin’ to live on hardly, and I told Josiah that
we would invite her to stay quite a spell, thinkin’ it would be a help to her.
She was a distant cousin of Josiah; probable as fur off as 7th or 8th.
[Illustration: KETURAH ALLEN.] She had a very disagreeable, high-headed,
patronizin’ way with her; very proud and domineerin’ and haughty in her
demeanier. But I never had it pass my mind that she was a feelin’ above Josiah
and me. But I s’pose she wuz. I s’pose, from what I found out afterwards, that
she did feel above us, right there in our own house, for as much as 11 weeks,
and I never mistrusted what was goin’ on. And I don’t s’pose I should have found
it out to this day if Tirzah Ann hadn’t see it, and up and told me of it. I see
she was awful disagreeable, dretful hard on the nerves and the temper. But I
took her as a dispensation, and done, if anything, better by her than I would if
she had been more agreeabler. I felt a feelin’ of pity and kindness towards her,
a kind of a Biblical feelin’ that should be felt towards the froward—my
principles was a performing round her in a martyr way, and a performin’ first
rate. When Tirzah Ann come here (she had been off on a visit), and before she
had been home a day, she found out what she was up to. She always had a sort of
a jealous, mistrustin’ turn, Tirzah Ann had. And says she that night, as we was
a washin’ the dishes to the sink, I a washin’ and she a wipin’:

“Cousin Keturah feels above you, mother.”

“Why, how you talk,” says I. “I never mistrusted what she was a doin’.”

And she had kept watch of little things that I hadn’t noticed or thought of, and
says she:

“She did that, mother, because she felt above you.”

“Why, is that so?” says I. “I thought she done it because she thought so much of
me.”

And I kep’ on, serene and calm, a washin’ my tea-plates. And Tirzah Ann looked
keen at me, and says she:

“Don’t you believe I am tellin’ you the truth, mother? Don’t you believe she
does feel above us?”

“Oh, yes,” says I, “I persume you are in the right on’t, though I never should
have mistrusted such a thing in the world.”

“Wall, what makes you look so serene and happy over it?”

“Why, I am thinkin’, Tirzah Ann, whether she gets enough comfort out of it to
pay her for her trouble. I hope she does, poor thing, for she hain’t got much
else to make her happy.”

“You do beat all, mother,” says Tirzah Ann; “you don’t seem to care a mite
whether anybody puts on airs and feels above you or not.”

And says I, “That is jest how it is, Tirzah Ann; I don’t.”

“Wall, it makes me mad!” says she, a rubbin’ the teapot hard. Says I, “What
earthly hurt does it do to us, Tirzah Ann? Can you tell?”

“Why, no!” She couldn’t really tell what particular hurt it done, and she rubbed
the teapot a little slower and more reasonable. “Wall,” says I, coolly, “then
let her feel. It probable does her some good, or else she wouldn’t tackle the
job.”

And jest as I had argued with Tirzah Ann about she that was Keturah Allen, jest
so I had argued, and did argue about Miss Skidmore. But I couldn’t convince
her—she stuck to it. “It does look so poor, mother, so fairly sickish, to see
anybody that hain’t got nothin’ under the sun to make ’em feel proud, put on
such airs, and try to be so exclusive and haughty.”

And says I, “Such folks _have_ to, Tirzah Ann.” Says I, “You’ll find, as a
general thing, that they are the very ones who do it. They are the very ones who
put on the most airs, and they do it because they _have_ to. Why,” says I,
“divin’ so deep into filosify as I have doven, it is jest as plain to me as
anything can be, that if anybody has got uncommon goodness, or intellect, or
beauty, or wealth, and an assured position, they don’t have to put on the
haughtiness and airs that them do that hain’t got nothin’. They don’t _have_ to;
they have got sunthin’ to hold ’em up, they can stand without airs.”

I had talked it all over with Tirzah Ann lots of times, but it hadn’t done her a
mite of good, as I could see, for I hadn’t got through reveryin’ on the subject,
nor begun to, when she up and says agin:

“Miss Skidmore says that all the high aristocracy of Jonesville, if they are
aris_to_krits,” says Tirzah Ann—“that is the way she pronounces it, they say she
can’t read hardly,—if they are aris_to_krits, and not imposters, they will go
away during the summer for a change. And I say, if a change is necessary for her
and old Skidmore, why Whitfield and I have got to have a change, if we die in
the attempt.”

[Illustration: VIEW OF JONESVILLE.] “A change!” says I, in low axents, a lookin’
round the charmin’, lovely prospect;—the clean, bright cottage, with its open
doors and windows, and white ruffled curtains wavin’ on the cool breeze; the
green velvet grass, the bright flower beds, the climbing, blossoming vines, the
birds singin’ in the shady branches overhead, and in the orchard; the blue lake
lyin’ so calm and peaceful in the distance, shining over the green hills and
forests; and the wide, cloudless sky bending over all like a benediction. “A
change!” says I, in low, tremblin’ tones of emotion. “Eve wanted a change in
Paradise, and she got it, too.”

“But,” says Tirzah Ann, for my tone impressed her fearfully, “don’t you believe
in a change for the summer? Don’t you think they are healthy?”

I thought I wouldn’t go into the heights and depths of felosophy in which I had
flew and doven—she had heard me time and agin, and eloquence is very tuckerin’
especially after you have been doin’ a hard day’s work—so I merely said:

“When anybody is bakin’ up alive in crowded cities; when the hot sun is shinin’
back on him from brick walls and stony roads; when all the air that comes to
them comes hot and suffocatin’, like a simon blowin’ over a desert; to such, a
change of body is sweet, and is truly healthy. But,” says I, lookin’ round again
on the cool and entrancin’ beauty and freshness of the land and other scape, “to
you whom Providence has placed in a Eden of beauty and bloom, to you I again
repeat for the 3d time that line of eloquent and beautiful poetry,—‘Better let
well enough alone.’”

I could see by the looks of her face that I hadn’t convinced her. But at that
very minute Josiah came back, and hollered to me that “he guessed we had better
be goin’ back, for he was afraid the hens would get out, and get into the
turnips.”

He had jest set out a new bed, and the hens was bewitched to eat the tops off.
He had shut ’em up, but felt it was resky to not watch ’em. So we started off.
But not before I had told Whitfield my mind about the plan. He looked more
convinced than Tirzah Ann did, a good deal more. But I no need to have builded
up any hopes on that, onto his mean, for I might have known that when a man
loves a woman devotedly, and they haint been married—wall, anywheres from 1 to 4
or 5 years, her influence over him is powerful, and never can be told. She
moulds him to her will as easy as clay is moulded in the hands of Mr. Potter.
Sometimes she moulds honer into him, and then again dishoner; sometimes she
moulds him comfortable, and then again she moulds him hard, and powerful
oncomfortable. These things are curious, but useful and entertainin’ to study
on, and very deep. [Illustration]

TIRZAH ANN TO A WATERIN’ PLACE. Wall, if you’ll believe it, after all my
eloquent talk, and reasonin’, and everything, the very next week they set off on
their journey after a change, on that exertion after rest and pleasure. They
come to see us the day before they went, but their plans was all laid, and
tickets bought, (they was goin’ to the same place and the same hotel and tavern
Skidmore’s folks was), so I didn’t say nothin more—what was the use? Thinkses I,
bought wit is the best if you don’t pay too much for it; they’ll find out for
themselves whether I was in the right on’t or not. But bad as I thought it was
goin’ to be, little did I think it was goin’ to be so bad as it wuz. Little did
I think that Tirzah Ann would be brought home on a bed. But she was. And
Whitfield walked with two canes, and had his right arm in a sling. But as I told
Josiah, when anybody chased up pleasure so uncommon tight, it wasn’t no wonder
they got lamed by it. For pleasure is one of the curiousest things in the world
to ketch,—speakin’ in a coltish and parable way. Almost impossible to ketch by
chasin’ her. And if anybody don’t believe me, let ’em get up some mornin’ before
sunrise, and take a halter, and start off a purpose, and see if they can
overtake her;—see if they can ketch her, and put a bit and martingill onto her.
See if they don’t find she is skittish and balky, and shies off when they go to
put the bits in her mouth. And see, when they think they have got the upper
hands of her, whether she don’t throw ’em head over heels, and caper off agin in
front of ’em. I have spoke in a parable way, and would not wish to be understood
a thinkin’ pleasure is a horse. Far from it. But this is a very deep subject,
and would be apt to carry any one beyond their depth if not simplified and
brought down to human comprehension. [Illustration: “A PITIFUL SIGHT.”]

The first time I went to see ’em after they got back, Tirzah Ann told me all
about it. She could set up some then. But if it wasn’t a pitiful sight to see
them three—Whitfield, Tirzah Ann, and the babe. To see how their means looked
now, and then to look back and think how they had looked the last time I had
seen ’em in that very place. Why, as I looked at ’em, and see how feeble, and
mauger, and used up they all looked, there wasn’t hardly a dry eye in my head.
Tirzah Ann told me it was a lesson that would last her through her hull life.
Why, she said right out plain, that if she should live to be 3 or 400 years old,
she shouldn’t never forget it, and I don’t believe myself that she would. There
they was, she and Whitfield, poor as 2 snails. I never see either of ’em in half
so poor order before. They hadn’t no ambition nor strength to work. Their morals
had all got run down. Their best clothes was all wore out. And that babe! I
could have cried, and wept, to see how that pretty little thing was lookin’.
Poor as a feeble young snail, and pale as a little white cotton piller-case. Her
appetite was all gone, too. She had always been used to sweet, fresh milk—the
milk from her own heifer, white as snow, with a brindle back, that her grandpa
give her for the name of Samantha. It gives dretful sweet, rich milk. And the
babe almost lived on it. And all the milk they could get for her there was sale
milk, sour half the time, and at the best full of adultery, so Whitfield said.
And I don’t think anything that happened to them on their hull tower made Josiah
and me so mad as that did. To think of that sweet little babe’s sufferin’ from
adulted and sour milk. It made us so awful indignant that we can’t hardly speak
peacible now, a talkin’ about it. And then they was all cooped up together in a
little mite of a room, and she was used to bein’ out-doors half the time, and
had a great, cool, airy room to sleep in nights; and bein’ shet up so much, in
such close, bad air, it all wore on her, and almost used her up. Oh! how pale
she was, and mauger, and cross! Oh! how fearfully cross! She would almost take
our heads off, Josiah’s and mine, (as it were,) every time we would speak to
her. It was dretful affectin’ to me to see her so snappish; it reminded me so of
her grandpa in his most fractious hours, and I told him it did. Josiah felt bad
to see her so; it cut him down jest as bad as it did me. And then to see
Whitfield’s and Tirzah Ann’s demeaniers and means! Why jest as sure as I live
and breathe they didn’t seem no more like their old means and demeaniers than if
they belonged to perfect strangers, and I told Tirzah Ann so. And she bust right
out a-cryin’, and says she, “Mother, one week’s more rest would have tuckered me
completely out. I could not have stood it, I should have died off.”

I wiped my own eyes, I was so affected, and says I, in choked-up axents, “You
know I told you how it would be, I told you that you was happy enough to home,
and you hadn’t better go off in search of pleasure.”

Says she, bustin’ right out agin, “One week more of pleasure and recreation
would have been my death-blow.”

Says I, “I believe it. But,” says I, knowin’ it was my duty to be calm, “It is
all over now, Tirzah Ann. You hain’t got to go through the pleasure agin. You
hain’t got to rest any more. You must try to overcome your feelin’s. Tell your
ma all about it,” says I, thinkin’ it would mebby do her good, and get her mind
offen it quicker. [Illustration: KEEPIN’ UP HER END.] So she up and told me the
hull story. And I see plain that Miss Skidmore was to the bottom of it all. She
and Tirzah Ann’s determination to not let her get ahead of her, and be more
genteel than she was. Tirzah Ann said she was jest about sick when they started,
for she found out most the last minute that Miss Skidmore had one dress more
than she had, and a polenay, and so she sent at once for materials and
ingregients, and sot up day and night and worked till she had got hers made,
full as good and a little ahead of Miss Skidmore’s. Wall, they started the same
day, and went to the same place, a fashionable summer resort, and put up to the
same tavern, a genteel summer tavern, to rest and recreate. And Miss Skidmore
bein’ a great, healthy, strong, raw-boned woman, could stand as much agin rest
and recreation as Tirzah Ann could. Why, Tirzah Ann said the rest was enough to
wear out a leather woman, and how she ever stood it for two weeks was more than
she could tell. You see she wasn’t used to hard work. I had always favored her,
and gone ahead with the work myself, when she lived to home; and Whitfield had
been as careful of her as he could be, and jest as good as a woman to help her,
and so the rest come tough on her; it was dretful hard on her. But as hard as
the rest was for her, I s’pose the recreation was as bad agin; I s’pose it was
twice as tough on her. You see she had to dress up 3 or 4 times a day, and keep
the babe dressed up slick. And she had to prominade down to the waterin’ place
and drink at jest such a time. And go a-ridin’ out on the water in boats and
yots; and had to play crokay, and be up till midnight every night to parties.
You see she had to do all this, ruther than let Miss Skidmore get on ahead of
her, and do more than she did, be more genteel than she was, and rest more.
[Illustration: MIDNIGHT AT A WATERING PLACE.] Their room was a little mite of a
room up four flights of stairs, and Tirzah Ann never could climb stairs worth a
cent; and it leaked awful—the rain come down round the chimbley. But they had to
take that room or none, the house bein’ so full and runnin’ over. And Whitfield
thinkin’ they could rest better in it than they could on the fence or door-step,
took it. But if there happened to come up a storm in the night, a thunder-storm
or anything, they would have to histe their umberells and lay under ’em. They
must have looked as curious as 2 dogs, and I told ’em so. The room bein’ so high
up, it wore on Tirzah Ann—she never could climb stairs worth a cent. And then it
was so small, the air was close, nearly tight, and hot as a oven. And the babe
bein’ used to large, cool rooms, full of fresh, pure air, couldn’t stand the
hotness and the tightness, and it begun to enjoy poor health, and it cried most
all the time. And to home it could play round out in the yard all day a’most,
and here it hung right onto its ma. And before long she begun to enjoy poor
health. And then the room on one side of ’em was occupied by a young man who was
learnin’ to play on the flute. He had been disappointed in love, and he would
try to make up tunes as he went along, sort o’ tragedy style, and dirge-like.
The most unearthly, and woe-begone, and soul-harrowin’ sounds, they say that
they ever heard or read of. They say it was enough to make any one’s blood run
cold in their vains to hear ’em. He kept his room most of the time, and played
day and night. He had ruther be alone day times, and think of that girl, and
lament over her, and play about her, than go into company; and nights he
couldn’t sleep, owin’ to his trouble, so he would set up and play. They was
sorry for him, they said they was. They said they knew he must have been in a
awful state, and his sufferin’s intense, or he couldn’t harrow up anybody’s
feelin’s so. But that didn’t make it none the easier for them. [Illustration:
WAILS OF WOE.] Tirzah Ann and Whitfield are both tender-hearted and sympathetic
by nature; if they hadn’t been, it wouldn’t have been so hard on ’em. But they
both say that tongue never can express the sufferin’s they underwent from that
flute, and from the feelin’s they felt for that young man. They expected every
day to hear that he had made way with himself, his sufferin’s seemed so great.
Such agonizin’ wails of woe he would blow into that flute! and he would groan
and writhe so when he wasn’t a playin’. Twice Whitfield went to bed with his
clothes on, he was so certain the young feller couldn’t stand it till mornin’,
and would need help. The room on the other side of ’em was occupied by a young
woman who owned a melodeon. She went into company a good deal, and her spells to
play would come on nights, after she got home from parties. She had a good many
bo’s, and was happy dispositioned naturally, and they said some nights it seemed
as if there wouldn’t be no end hardly to her playin’, quick pieces, waltzes, and
pokeys bein’ her theme—and love songs, which she would sing very sentimental and
impressive, and put in sights of quavers and shakes—they said it did seem as if
they never see so many quavers and trills as she trilled and quavered. Tirzah
Ann and Whitfield both said that they knew what it was to be young, they had
been young themselves, not much more’n two years ago, and they knew by
experience what it was to be lovesick, and they wanted to sympathize with
happiness and gayity of heart, and they didn’t want to do nothin’ to break up
her highlarity of spirits. But still it come dretful tough on ’em. I s’pose the
sufferin’s couldn’t never be told nor sung that they underwent from them 2
musicianers. [Illustration: QUAVERS AND SHAKES.] And the babe not bein’ used to
such a racket nights would get skairt, and almost go into historical fits. And
two or three nights Tirzah Ann had ’em, too—the historicks. I don’t see what
kep’ Whitfield up; he says no money would tempt him to go through with it agin.
I s’pose Tirzah Ann almost tore him to pieces. But she wasn’t to blame; she
didn’t know what she was a doin’. It hain’t no use to blame Tirzah Ann now,
after it is all over with. And she sees it plain enough now; she is sufferin’
enough from the effects of it—her tryin’ to keep up with Miss Skidmore, and rest
as much as she did, and recreate as fur, and do all that she done. And that is
where her morals got all run down, and Whitfield’s, too. To think of them
two—she that was Tirzah Ann Allen, and Whitfield Minkley—to think of them two,
brought up as they had been, havin’ such parents and step-parents as they had,
settin’ under such a preacher as they had always set under—to think of them two
a dancin’! and a flirtin’! Why, if anybody had told me, if it had come through
two or three, I would have despised the idee of believin’ of it. But it didn’t
come through anybody; she owned it up to me herself. I couldn’t hardly believe
my ear when she told me, but I had to. They had parties there every evenin’ in
the parlors of the tavern, and Miss Skidmore went to ’em all, and danced, and so
they went, and they danced. I didn’t say nothin’ to hurt her feelin’s, her mean
looked so dretful, and I see she was a gettin’ her pay for her sinfulness, but I
groaned loud and frequent while she was a tellin’ me of this (entirely unbeknown
to me). [Illustration: DOIN’ THEIR LEVEL BEST.] Here was where Whitfield got so
lame. He never had danced a step before in his life—nor Tirzah Ann, neither. But
Skidmore and his wife danced every night till after midnight, and Tirzah Ann was
so ambitious she was determined that she and Whitfield should recreate and dance
as much as they did, if they fell dead a doin’ of it. And not bein’ used to it,
it almost killed ’em. Besides loosenin’ their morals so that it will be weeks
and weeks before they get as strong and firm as they was before. When morals get
to tottlin’ and wobblin’ round, it is almost impossible to get ’em as firm as
they was before. [Illustration: HOW JOSIAH WOULD PLAY POLO.] But truly they got
their pay. Whitfield not bein’ used to it, and bein’ so tuckered out with the
recreation and rest he had been a havin’, it lamed him dretfully, rheumatiz sot
in, and his sufferin’s was intense. And then a base-ball hit him—or anyway he
got hurt awfully when he was a playin’ some game, base-ball, or billiards, or
polo. That is a game, polo is, that I never heard on in my life before, and
Josiah was awful interested in it when I told him about it. And he said he
should deerly love to learn to play it. That man acts frisky now, a good deal of
the time, and is a great case to foller up new idees. But I told him it would be
dretful foolish for him to try to learn it, for the old mare had enough to do
now, without that. It is played on horseback, and from the name I s’pose they
try to hit each other with poles, or hit the horses, or sunthin’. I don’t really
understand it well enough to give directions about playin’ it straight and
correct. But Josiah was all carried away with the idee, and stuck to it he
should love to play it, love to like a dog. Says he: “How I should enjoy to take
a game with old Bobbet. Why,” says he, “let me get onto the old mare, and give
me a good, strong hop-pole, and I believe I could fetch the old man down the
first blow.”

But I discourage the idee, and don’t mean to let him undertake it. Says I,
“Josiah Allen, it stands you in hand at your age to not go to caperin’ round,
and actin’, and get all the other old men in Jonesville all rousted up about it,
and a actin’. And I should think,” says I, “that one lame one in the family is
enough, without your chasin’ after pleasure on the old mare, and mebby both of
you get killed in the job.”

I guess I have kinder broke it up; I don’t believe he will try to learn the
game. But as I was a sayin’, in that or some other of the games Whitfield got
hit on his elbo, right on his crazy-bone, and I s’pose it made him most crazy.
But the doctor thinks with the best of care he may get over it, and use his arm
again. Tirzah Ann’s dancin’ didn’t give her the rheumatiz; it seemed to hurt her
more inwardly, the doctor says, brought on a kind of weakness. But where she got
her death-blows (as it were), what laid her up, and made her bed-sick, was goin’
in bathin’, and drinkin’ so much mineral water. Ridin’ out on the water so much
come hard on ’em both, for it made ’em sick as snipes. Every ride was so severe
on ’em it almost spilte their stomachs. Tirzah Ann never could bear deep
water—was always afraid of it. But she wasn’t goin’ to have Miss Skidmore bathe,
and she not, not if she drounded herself in the operation. So she went in, and
got skairt the minute the water was over her knees; it skairt her so she had
sort o’ cramps, and gin up she was a droundin’. And that made it worse for her,
and she did crumple right down in the water, and would have been drounded if a
man hadn’t rescued her. She was a sinkin’ for the 3d time when he laid holt of
her hair, and dragged her out. She hain’t got over the fright yet, and I am
afraid she never will. [Illustration: THE RESCUE.] The mineral water, they say,
tasted awfully. And Tirzah Ann bein’ very dainty always about what she eat and
drunk, it went against her stomach so she couldn’t hardly get a tumbler-full of
it down. But Miss Skidmore, bein’ so tough, could drink 8 tumblers-full right
down, and it seems it lifted her up dretfully. They said she acted haughty and
overbearin’ because Tirzah Ann couldn’t drink so much as she could, into a quart
or two. She put on airs about it. And Tirzah Ann couldn’t stand that, so one
day, (it was the day before they come home,) she drinked 5 tumblers-full right
down. And I s’pose a sicker critter never lived than she was. [Illustration: “IT
TASTED AWFULLY.”]

I s’pose they was awful skairt about her, and she was skairt about herself. She
thought she was a dyin’, and made Whitfield promise on a Testament to carry her
back to Jonesville the next day, dead or alive. And he, bein’ a master hand to
keep his promise, was as good as his word, and brought her home the next day on
a bed. She got up in a day or two so as to be about the house. But they have
been laid up for repairs, as you may say, ever since. They are sick critters
now, both on ’em. I have seen awful and deplorable effects from rest and
recreation before, but never, _never_ did I see awfuller or deplorabler than
they are both a sufferin’ from. They both say that one week’s rest more would
have been their death blows, and finished ’em for this world, and I believe it.
[Illustration: A SAD SCENE.] And besides the outward sufferin’s that are plain
to be seen, there are inward hurts that are fur, fur worse. Outside bruises and
hurts can be reached with arneky and wormwood, but who can put a mustard
poultice on a bruised spirit, and a weakened moral? Nobody can’t do it. Now what
I am a goin’ to say, what I am a goin’ to tell now, I wouldn’t have get round
for the world—_it must be kept_! If I didn’t feel it to be my boundin’ duty to
write the truth, and the hull truth, and if it wuzn’t for its bein’ a solemn
warnin’ to them who may have felt a hankerin’ to go off on a tower after rest;
if it wuzn’t for this I couldn’t write the awful words. But I wouldn’t have it
told for anything; I wouldn’t have it get round for the world. It _must_ be
kept. But sense I am on the subject I will tell it jest as it is. But it _must_
not go no further. Tirzah Ann didn’t tell it right out to me, but I gathered it
from little things I heard her and Whitfield say, and from what I heard from
others that was there. I mistrust, and pretty much know, that Tirzah Ann
flirted. Flirted with a man! [Illustration: TIRZAH ANN FLIRTS WITH A MAN.] You
see, Miss Skidmore wantin’ to appear fashionable and genteel, and do as other
genteel wimmen did, flirted with men. And I know jest as well as I want to know
that Tirzah Ann did, not wantin’ to be outdone. I know she and Whitfield
quarreled dretfully, for the first time in their lives,—that I had right from
Tirzah Ann’s own mouth. But she didn’t tell me what it was about. She looked
sort o’ meachin’, and turned the subject, and I hain’t one to pump. But I
s’pose, from what they both told me, that they come pretty nigh partin’. And I
know, jest as well as if I see her at it, that Tirzah Ann bein’ so ambitious,
and not wantin’ to be outdone by Miss Skidmore, went to flirtin’, and I mistrust
it was with old Skidmore himself. I know he and Whitfield don’t speak. Tirzah
Ann never could bear the sight of him, but I s’pose she wanted to gaul Miss
Skidmore. Oh! such doin’s, such doin’s! It worked up me and Josiah dretfully. As
I told him, “where would their morals have been, if they had rested and
recreated much longer?”

And he groaned aloud, and said what gauled him the worst was to think of the
piles and piles of money they had throwed away. Says he: “It will cramp ’em for
months and months,”—and it will. [Illustration]

MISS BOBBET LETS THE CAT OUT. My companion Josiah havin’ bought a quantity of
fresh fish, I thought I would carry one over to Miss Betsey Slimpsy,—she that
was Betsey Bobbet,—thinkin’ mebby it would taste good to her. Betsey hain’t
well. Some think she is in a gallopin’ consumption, but I don’t. I think it is
her workin’ so hard, and farin’ so hard. She has to support the family herself,
almost entirely; she don’t have enough to eat a good deal of the time, so folks
say; she hain’t got any clothes fit to wear; and she has to be such a slave, and
work so awful hard, that it don’t seem as if she is half as bright as she used
to be. As she says, if it wasn’t for the dignity she got by bein’ married, it
didn’t seem as if she could keep up. But that, she says, is a great comfort to
her. But she looks bad. She don’t get no sleep at all, she says, or none to
speak of. Simon’s horrors are worse than I ever dremp’ horrors could be. They
are truly horrible. Every night he pounds on the headboard, yells awful, prances
round, and kicks. Why, Betsey says, and I believe her, that she is black and
blue most the hull time, jest from kicks. I am sorry for Betsey. [Illustration:
A PRESENT FOR BETSEY.] Wall, I give her the fish,—she seemed awful glad of
it,—and visited with her a little while, and then, as supper-time was
approachin’ and drawin’ near, I histed my umberell, and started out on my
homeward return. It was a lovely evenin’. It had been a very hot day, but the
sun had sot down (as it were) behind the trees to cool himself off, and the
earth, takin’ advantage of his temporary retirement, seemed to foller on and do
likewise. So I walked along on the green grass, under the swayin’ branches of
the apple-trees that bent down over the highway—great, liberal-hearted trees,
stretching their strong brown arms out in blessing and benediction—out over
their own rich, cultivated soil and the dusty highway, over foe and lover,
tramp, and Josiah Allen’s wife. I liked that in the trees—liked it first-rate in
’em. It made me feel well to walk in their refreshin’ shade. [Illustration:
FRIENDLY FEELIN’S]

The apples were ripenin’ in the clusterin’ boughs, birds sang in the branches,
the blue sky shone down lovin’ly. The wayside blossoms grew thick at my feet,
the grass was like a velvet carpet under ’em, and, most beautiful scene of all,
my Josiah stood in the barn-door, nailin’ on a board. Oh! how first-rate I did
feel and look. I knew I was a lookin’ well. I knew it jest as well as I wanted
to, before I met my companion’s admirin’ look, as he asked me, in considerable
tender tones, if I knew whether there was any more of them tenpenny nails left.
I told him there wuzn’t. And then, oh! how admirin’ he looked at me agin, as I
told him he had better hurry and finish the door, as I was goin’ right in to put
on the tea-kettle and get supper jest as quick as I could. His smile was like
sunshine to my heart, as he told me he would be in by the time I got it ready,
and I’d better hurry up. As I walked towards the house I was feelin’ beautiful,
and very affectionate towards my pardner. For love, no matter how full and
ardent it may be, will, like other great deeps, have its ebbs and flows, its
high tides and its more dwindlin’ ones. At that moment my love and my confidence
in my Josiah swept up in my heart to the highest tide-level. And I thought, as I
walked along, that I would shet up that eye of my spectacles—that I never would
agin let distrust and a Widder Bump cause me a moment’s disquiet and
unhappiness. And though I could not deny to myself that Josiah Allen’s conduct,
in the spring of the year, and on a Friday night, had been mysterious, I felt
that I would look back upon it as I look on scriptural passages that I can’t
make out the meanin’ of. I always feel in them cases that it is the fault of the
translator. No matter how mysterious the meanin’ may seem, I know that the
Scriptures are right, anyway. And I felt that I would look back in that way upon
my companion’s strange words and demeaners. I felt that I would trust my Josiah.
And so, bein’ full of love and confidence in Josiah Allen and the world at
large, I walked with a even step up to the door-step, and as I did so I see the
kitchen-door was open. I thought that looked sort o’ strange, as I knew that my
Josiah had been to the barn to work all the time I was gone. But I went in, and
as I did so I see a man a standin’ by the stove. He was a short, stocky man,
dressed middlin’ well, but he had a strange look. [Illustration: MEETING THE
ELDER.] He was considerable older than Josiah, I should think. His face was red
and bloated, and his hair bein’ white as snow, and his white whiskers runnin’
all round his chin, and up the sides of his face, it give it considerable the
look of a red pin-cushion with a white ruffle round it. Only the ruffle (still
usin’ the poetical simely) wuzn’t white under his chin. No, he used too much
tobacco for that. I s’pose he used it for the good looks of it; I s’pose that is
what folks use tobacco for. But good land! I can’t see a single pretty look to
it, nor never could, from the time a man takes in a half a plug or so, and wads
it up in one side of his mouth, showin’ his yeller, nasty-lookin’ teeth, and
lettin’ the black, filthy-lookin’ juice run down his mouth and whiskers, to the
time he spits it all out agin onto carpets, stairways, church pews, concert
halls, car floors, wimmen’s dresses, and et cetery. _I_ can’t see a mite of
pretty looks about it. But I am reasonable and always was. And there probable
may be some beauty in it that I hain’t never seen, or there wouldn’t so many
foller it up. For it must be for the looks of it that they use it. I have
studied on it a sight, and there hain’t no other reason that I can see. And if
there had been any the keen eye of my spectacles would have ketched sight on it.
They go awful deep into subjects, them spectacles do. It can’t be for the taste
of it that they use it, for it don’t taste good. That I _know_, for I got some
into my mouth once by mistake, over to Miss Bobbet’s, and so what I know, I
know; I can take my oath on the taste of it. No, they don’t use it for that. It
can’t be for the profit of it, for it hain’t profitable; quite the reverse. Why,
there is about 30 million dollars’ worth raised in the United States a year, and
somebody has got to pay for it. Why, I s’pose some poor men chew enough of this
stuff,—chew it jest to spit it out agin,—and smoke it,—draw the smoke into their
mouth jest to blow it out agin,—why, I s’pose this proceedin’ costs ’em enough
in ten or fifteen years to buy ’em a good little home. And there they are
willin’ to live and die homeless, themselves and them they love, jest for looks,
jest to try to look pretty. For it must be for that. It can’t be for health, for
doctors say it hurts the health awfully, makes folks weak and nervious, and
sometimes leads to blindness and fits. It hain’t for morals, for folks say, and
stick to it, that it makes ’em totter. Weakens a man’s moral nature, his social
and religious faculties, gives him a taste for the stronger stimulent of
intoxicatin’ drinks, and so leads him down to ruin gradual. No, it hain’t for
the morals. I have most probable hit on the right reason. But good land! where
the beauty is in it I can’t see. But I am a episodin’ fearfully. As I was a
sayin’, this man, instead of beautifyin’ himself with it, had jest spilte the
looks of his whiskers, in my eye. They looked yeller and nasty. And the sides of
his mouth was all streaked with it. In some places it was sort o’ dried on. He
looked to me as if it would do him good to put him asoak in weak lye, and let
him lay in it 2 or 3 days till he got sweetened and cleansed. His eyes was
light-colored, and the lids was swelled and inflamed like. His mouth was drawed
down into a dretful sanctimonious pucker; he had a awful big chew of tobacco in
his mouth, and so it wasn’t all hypocracy that drawed it down; it was probable
about half and half—half hypocracy and half tobacco. And under all the other
expressions of his face was a dissipated, bad look. I didn’t like his looks a
mite. But there he stood a kinder hangin’ onto the table (I found out afterwards
that he had been drinkin’ all the hard cider he could to old Bobbet’ses). He
asked me, in a kind of a thick voice, for Josiah. And I, thinkin’ it was some
one on business, asked him in a polite tone, though cool, “if he wouldn’t take a
chair and set down.”

“I would,” says he, in that thick, husky voice, “I would set down, mum, but I am
afraid if I should I couldn’t get up agin.”

And he looked at me in a curious, strange way; dretful wise, and yet foolish
like. Says I, gazin’ sternly at him: “I am afraid you have been a drinkin’,
sir.”

“No! No! I hain’t! cider’s good; good for the blood. Will take a glass, if you
please.”

“Not here you won’t,” says I firmly. “I’ll take a glass if you _please_, I
said,” says he, speakin’ up kinder loud. “Cider’s good; good for the blood.”

Says I: “It will be good for your blood if you get out of this house as quick as
you can. And I would love to know,” says I, lookin’ at him keenly over my
specks, “what you are here for, anyway.”

“I am here in the cause of—cider’s good for the blood. Will take a drink.”

Says I: “You start out of this house, or I’ll call Josiah.”

“I come, and I’m workin’ for the cause of religion, if you please—and I’ll take
a glass of it, if you please.”

He’d make a sort of a drunken bow, every word or two, and smiled sort o’
foolish, and winked long, solemn winks. Says I sternly: “You act as if you was a
workin’ for the cause of religion.”

“Apple-cider’s good. Hain’t apples religious, easy entreated? Hain’t apples
peacible, long sufferin’? Will take a drink, if you please.”

Says I, with a awful dignity: “I’d love to see myself givin’ you anything to
drink. You are drunk as a fool now; that is what ails you.”

“Cider hain’t tox-tox-toxicatin’; Bobbet said ’twuzn’t. He said his cider-mill
was harmless, easy ’ntreated, as peacible a one as he ever see. Will take a
glass, if you please. I wouldn’t drink a tox-tox-toxin’ bevrig, not for dollar.
Guess Bobbet knows what’s pious drink and what hain’t. Cider’s pious
bevrig—called so—peacible, pious drink.”

“Pious drink!” says I, sternly. “I have seen more than one man made a fool and a
wild man by it, pious or not. Oh!” says I, eppisodin’ out loud and eloquent,
entirely unbeknown to me, “how Satan must laugh in his sleeves (if he wears
sleeves) to see how good men are deceived and blindered in this matter. Nothin’
tickles Satan more than to get a good man, a church member, to work for him for
nothin’. When he gets good, conscientious, christian folks to tackle his work of
ruinin’ souls, unbeknown to them, and let him rest off a spell,—why it tickles
him most to death. “And when anyone plants the first seeds of drunkenness in a
person, no matter how good-naturedly it is done, no matter how good the ones are
who do it, they are workin’ for Satan and boardin’ themselves, entirely
unbeknown to them. That is, the good ones are; some know and realize what they
are a doin’, but keep at it through selfishness and love of gain.”

“Likker’s bad, wrong; but cider’s in’cent, in’cent as a babe, a prattlin’ little
babe; it’s called so.”

“Good land!” says I, “do you s’pose I care a cent what a thing is called?” Says
I: “I have seen cider that three glasses of it would fix a man out so he
couldn’t tell how many childern he had, or fathers and mothers, no more than he
could count the stars in the zodiact. And couldn’t walk straight and upright, no
more than he could bump his old head aginst the moon. When a man is dead what
difference does it make to him whether he died from a shotgun or billerous
colic, or was skairt to death? And what difference does it make when a man is
made a fool of, whether it is done by one spunefull or a dozen, or a quart? The
important thing to him is, he is a fool.”

“Yes, ’n I’ll take a glass of cider, if you please.”

I started right straight for the back stoop and hollered to Josiah. That skairt
him. He started kinder sideways for the door, got holt of the latch, and says
he:

“I come to labor with you, n’ I don’t want to leave you goin’ the broad road to
destruction; but I will,” says he, with a simple sort of a smile, and as foolish
a wink as I ever see wunk, “I will if you’ll give me a drink of cider, if you
please.”

[Illustration: A THREATNIN’ ATTITUDE.] Says I, firmly, “You will take a broader
road than you have calculated on, if you don’t clear out of this house,
instantly and to once.” And as I still held my umberell in my hand, I held it up
in a threatnin’ way in my left hand, some like a spear. And he started off and
went staggerin’ down the road. I was a wonderin’ awfully who he was, and what he
come for, when Miss Bobbet come in to bring home a drawin’ of tea, and she was
so full of news that she most fell aginst the door, as wimmen will when they are
freighted too heavy with gossip. And she said it was Elder Judas Wart, a Mormon
Elder, who had come back to Jonesville again. “And,” says she, hurryin’ to
relieve herself, for her mind was truly loaded heavy with news beyond its
strength, “what do you think now about the Widder Bump bein’ a Mormon. I told
you she was one, a year ago, and other wimmen told you so, but you would stick
to it that she was a camel.”

“Yes,” says I, “in the name of principle I have upholded that woman and called
her a camel.”

“Wall,” says she, “camel or not, she was sealed to Elder Judas Wart last week.
You know she went home to her mother’s in the spring. And he has been out there
all summer holdin’ his meetin’s, and married her. [Illustration: MISS BOBBET
TELLS ABOUT JOSIAH.] “He told us all about it to-day. He said he hadn’t hardly a
wife by him but what was disabled in some way from workin’. He said he was
fairly discouraged. Eleven of ’em was took down with the tyfus, violent. A few
of ’em, he didn’t hardly know jest how many, but quite a number of ’em, had the
chills. Two or three of ’em was bed-rid. Four of ’em had young babes; and he
said he felt it was not good for man to be alone, and he needed a wife—so he
married the Widder Bump and sent her on to Utah by express to take charge of
things till he come. He had meetin’s to Jonesville last spring, and Bobbet went
to ’em.”

“Bobbet went to ’em,” says I, mechanically. For oh! what strange and curious
feelin’s was a tacklin’ of me. Memeries of that terrible crysis in my life when
I heard the mutterin’s of a earthquake, a rumblin’ and a roarin’ unbeknown to
me. When everything in life seemed uncertain and wobblin’ to a Samantha, and a
Josiah talked in his slumbers of a Widder Bump. “Yes,” says she, “Bobbet owned
it all up to me, jest now. He wouldn’t, if the Elder hadn’t come in and acted so
glad to see him. But, if you’ll believe it, Bobbet looked as if he would sink
when he said he had married the Widder Bump. And he says he hain’t goin’ to have
no new overcoat made this winter. And he has been sot on havin’ one.”

“Bobbet owned it all up to you,” says I, speakin’ agin mechanically, for I felt
fairly stunted by the emotions that was rushin’ onto me. “Yes, I remember he
used to go evenin’s to Jonesville a sight, last spring, when I had the quinzy
and was laid up. But I s’posed he went to the Methodist Conference meetin’s. But
he didn’t, he went to hear Elder Judas Wart. And Bobbet says Josiah Allen went
to ’em, too.”

At them fearful words I groaned aloud. I wouldn’t say a word aginst my pardner.
But to save my life I couldn’t keep that groan back. It fairly groaned itself
(as it were), my feelin’s was such. It was a fearful groan, deep and melancholy
in the extreme. I was determined to not say one word about my feelin’s
concernin’ my pardner, and I didn’t, only jest that groan. She is quite a case
to make mischief in families, but she hain’t got a thing to carry from me, only
jest that groan. And there can’t be much done, even in a court of law, with one
plain groan, and nothin’ else; there can’t be much proved by it. She is a pryin’
woman, and I see she mistrusted sunthin’. Says she:

“What is the matter, Josiah Allen’s wife? What are you groanin’ for, so heavy?”

I wouldn’t come right out and tell the awful emotions that was performin’
through my mind—and at the same time I wouldn’t lie. So I broke out sort o’
eloquent, and says I:

“When I think what female wimmen have suffered, and are sufferin’, from this
terrible sin of polygamy, it is enough to make anybody groan.” Says I, “I feel
guilty, awful guilty, to think I hain’t done sunthin’ before now to stop it.
Here I have,” says I, growin’ fearfully excited, “here I have jest sot down
here, with my hands folded (as it were), and let them doin’s go on without doin’
a single thing to break it up. And it makes me feel fairly wicked when I think
of that address the sufferin’ female wimmen of Utah sent out to Miss Hays and
me.”

“To Miss Hays and you?” says Miss Bobbet, in a sort of a jealous way. “I don’t
know as it was sent to you special. It said Miss Hays, and the other wimmen of
the United States.”

“Wall,” says I, “hain’t I a woman, and hain’t Jonesville right in the very
center of the United States?”

“Why yes,” says she. Miss Bobbet will always give up when she is convinced. I’ll
say that for her. “Wall,” says I, “that address that they sent out to us was one
of the most powerful and touchin’ appeals for help ever sent out by sufferin’
humanity. And here I hain’t done a thing about it, and I don’t believe Emily
has.”

“Emily who?” says she. “Why, Emily Hays,” says I. “Rutherford Hays’es wife. She
that was Emily Webb. As likely a woman as ever entered that White House. A woman
of gentle dignity, sweet, womanly ways, earnest christian character, and firm
principles. No better or better-loved woman has ever sot up in that high chair
since Lady Washington got down out of it. A good-lookin’ woman, too,” says I
proudly. “She has got a fair face and a fair soul. Her christian example is as
pure and clear as the water she makes them old congressmen drink to her dinner-
table, and is as refreshin’, and as much of a rarity to ’em. I can tell you,”
says I, “it makes me and America proud, it tickles both of us most to death, to
think our representative lady is one so admirable in every way. And foreigners
can gaze at her all they are a mind to. We hain’t afraid to let ’em peruse her
through the biggest telescopes they can get; they won’t find nothin’ in her face
nor her nature but what we are proud of, both of us. “But in this matter I’ll
bet a cent Emily hain’t made a move, no more than I have. We have been slack in
it, both on us. But as for me,” says I firmly, “I am determined to be up and a
doin’.”

[Illustration: “A RARITY TO ’EM.”]

And oh! how I sithed (to myself) as I thought it over. Emily hadn’t had the
fearful lesson that I had had. Her pardner’s morals never had wobbled round and
tottered under the pressure of this pernicious doctrine, and a Widder Bump. My
sithes was fearful, as I thought it over, but they was inward and silent ones.
For my devotion to my pardner is such that I would not give even the testimony
of a sithe against my Josiah. When necessary, and occasion demands it, I scold
Josiah myself, powerful; I have to. But I will protect him from all other blame
and peril, as long as I have a breath left in my lung, or a strength left in my
armpit. But oh! what feelin’s I felt, what deep, though silent, sithes I sithed,
as I thought it over to myself. How the posy will not give out its perfume; will
hang right onto it with its little, dainty, invisible hands till it is trod on;
then it gives it up—has to. And gold won’t drop a mite of its dross; obstinate,
haughty, holdin’ right onto it till it is throwed into the fire, and heat put to
it. And to foller up the simelys, Josiah Allen’s wife’s heart had to be tried in
the fiery furnace of pain and mortifacture before it would give up and do its
duty. Oh! how my conscience smoted me as I thought it over. Thought how the hand
of personal sufferin’ had to fairly whip me into the right. There had hundreds
and thousands of my own sect been for year after year a sufferin’ and a
agonizin’. Bearin’ the heaviest of crosses with bleedin’ hands, and eyes so
blinded with tears they could hardly ketch a glimpse of the sweet heavens of
promise above ’em. And how at last, bein’ fairly drove to it in their despair,
they writ to Emily and me for help: help to escape out of the deeps of personal
and moral degradation; help to rescue them and the whole land from barberism and
ruin. And there we hadn’t paid no more attention to that letter than if it
hadn’t been wrote to us. Oh! how guilty I felt. I felt as if I was more to blame
than Emily was, for her house was bigger than mine, and she had more to do. And
she hadn’t had the warnin’ I had. I was the guilty one. In the spring of the
year, and on a Friday night, right up on the ceilin’ of our kitchen had those
fearful words been writ, jest as they was in Bellshazzer’ses time:

“_Mean! mean!_ tea-kettle!” and et cetery. Which bein’ interpreted in various
ways, held awful meanin’s in every one of ’em. “_Mean! mean!_” showin’ there was
mean doin’s a goin’ on; “tea-kettle!” showin’ there was bilin’ water a heatin’
to scald and torture me. And takin’ it all together this awful meanin’ could be
read: “Josiah Allen is weighed in the ballances, and is found wantin’.”

I hadn’t heeded those fiery words of warnin’. I had covered my eyes, and turned
away from interpretations (as it were). Forebodin’s had foreboded, and I hadn’t
minded their ’bodin’s. Forerunners had run right in front of me, and I wouldn’t
look at these forerunners, or see ’em run. Blind trust and affection for a
Josiah had blinded the eyes of a Samantha; but now, when the truth was brought
to light by a Miss Bobbet, when I could see the awful danger that had hung over
me on a Friday night and in the spring of the year, when I could almost hear the
whizzin’ of the fatal arrow aimed at my heart, my very life—now I could realize
how them hearts felt where the arrows struck, where they was a quiverin’ and a
smartin’ and a ranklin’. Now, it felt a feelin’, my heart did, that it was
willin’, while a throb of life remained in it, to give that throb to them
fellow-sufferers (fellow-female-sufferers). And when Miss Bobbet said, jest as
she started for home, that Elder Judas Wart wanted to have a talk with me on
religion and mormonism, I said, in a loud, eloquent voice:

“Fetch him on! Bring him to me instantly! and let me argue with him, and convert
him.”

I s’pose my tone and my mean skairt her, she not knowin’ what powerful
performances had been a performin’ in my mind. And I heard that she went right
from our house and reported that I was after the Elder. So little is worldly
judgment to be relied upon. But nobody believed it, and if they had, I shouldn’t
have cared, no more than I should have cared for the murmurin’ of the summer
breeze. When the conscience is easy, the mind is at rest. I knew there was three
that knew the truth on’t: the Lord, Elder Judas Wart, and myself. I count Josiah
and me as one, which is lawful, though Josiah says that I am the one the biggest
heft of the time. He said “he made calculations when he married me, when we was
jined together as one, that he would be that one.”

And I told him, “Man’s calculations was blindin’, and oft deceivin’.”

I said it in a jokin’ way. I let him be the “one” a good deal of the time, and
he knows it. But, as I was a sayin’, them three that knew it was all that was
necessary to my comfort and peace of mind. Josiah looked sad and depressted, and
I knew, for I see old Bobbet leanin’ over the barnyard fence while he was a
milkin’, and I knew they had been talkin’ over the news. And when he come in
with his second pail-full of milk, lookin’ so extra depressted, my mean was some
colder, probable about like ice cream, only not sweet; no, not at all
sweet—quite the reverse. [Illustration: BOBBET AND JOSIAH TALKIN’.] After Miss
Bobbet’s departure, the night that ensued and followed on was fearful and
agonizin’. What to do with Josiah Allen I knew not. But I made my mind up not to
tackle him on the subject then, but wait till I was more calm and composed down.
I also thought I would do better to take the daylight to it. So I treated him
considerable the same as my common run of treatment towards him was, only a
little more cool—not cold as ice, but coolish. But oh! what emotions goared me
that night, as I lay on my goose-feather pillow, with Josiah by my side a
groanin’ in his sleep frequent and mournful. He couldn’t keep awake, that man
couldn’t, not if all the plagues of Egypt was a plaguin’ him, as I often
remarked to him. But while such emotions was a performin’ in my mind, there
wuzn’t no sleep for me. Some of the time I was mad at Josiah Allen, and then
agin I was mad at the Government. Some of the time I would feel indignant at
Josiah, clear Josiah; and then agin, as he would sithe out loud and heart-
breakin’ sithes, my affection for him would rise up powerful, and I would say to
myself—oritorin’ eloquent right there in the dead of the night—“Why should I lay
all the blame of a pernicious system onto my sufferin’ pardner? Human nater is
weak and prone to evil, especially man human nater, which is proner. And when
Government keeps such abysses for men to walk off of, and break their necks
(morally), who should be scolded the most—them men after their necks are broke,
or the ones who dug the abysses, or let ’em be dug? “Let this band of banditty
flourish on shore—furnished land for ’em to flourish on—and furnished ships to
go out over the ocian and hunt round for foreign souls to ruin. Who calmly
looked on and beheld its ships bear to our shores hundreds and thousands of the
ignorant peasantry of the old world—fair-faced Swedish and Danish maidens, blue-
eyed German girls, and bright English and Irish lassies—lookin’ with innocent,
wonderin’ eyes toward a new life—innocent youth, deceived by specious
falsehoods, pourin’ onto our shores like pure rills of water, to fall into that
muddy gulf of corruption and become putrid also—and our Government lookin’
calmly on, happy as a king, and pretendin’ to be religious.”

I declare! as I thought it all over, I was as mad with the Government as I was
with my pardner, and I don’t know but madder. Scolded, Josiah Allen had got to
be—that I knew. But I hankered, I hankered awfully, right there in the dead of
the night, to tackle the Government, too, and scold it fearfully. I felt that I
must be up and a doin’. I yearned to tackle Elder Judas Wart, and argue with him
with a giant strength. But little did I think that in a few days I should be a
doin’ of it. [Illustration]

A SERENADING EPISODE, &c.

These verses of Betsey’s come out in the last week’s _Gimlet_, and I call it
foolish stuff. Though (on measurin’ ’em in a careless way with a yard-stick) I
found the lines was pretty nigh of a equal length, and so I s’pose it would be
called poetry. [Illustration: OLD TOIL’S BRIDE.] A WIFE’S STORY. Oh Gimlet! back
again I float,               With broken wings, a weary bard;             I
cannot write as once I wrote,               I have to work so very hard;
So hard my lot, so tossed about,             My muse is fairly tuckered out. My
muse aforesaid once hath flown,               But now her back is broke, and
breast;             And yet she fain would crumple down;               On Gimlet
pages she would rest,             And sing plain words as there she’s sot—
Haply they’ll rhyme, and haply not. I spake plain words in former days,
No guile I showed, clear was my plan;             My gole it matrimony was;
My earthly aim it was a man. I gained my man, I won my gole;             Alas! I
feel not as I fole. Yes, ringing through my maiden thought               This
clear voice rose: “Oh come up higher.”             To speak plain truth, with
candor fraught,               To married be was my desire. Now, sweeter still
this lot shall seem,             To be a widder is my theme. For toil hath
claimed me for her own,               In wedlock I have found no ease;
I’ve cleaned and washed for neighbors round,               And took my pay in
beans and pease;             In boiling sap no rest I took,             Or
husking corn, in barn, and shock. Or picking wool from house to house,
White washing, painting, papering;             In stretching carpets, boiling
souse;               E’en picking hops, it hath a sting,             For spiders
there assembled be,             Mosquitoes, bugs, and e t c.

I have to work, oh! very hard;               Old Toil, I know your breadth and
length;             I’m tired to death, and, in one word,               I have
to work beyond my strength. And mortal men are very tough             To get
along with,—hasty, rough. Yes, tribulation’s doomed to her               Who
weds a man, without no doubt. In peace a man is singuler;               His ways
they are past findin’ out. And oh! the wrath of mortal males—             To
point their ire, earth’s language fails. And thirteen children in our home
Their buttons rend, their clothes they burst,             Much bread and such do
they consume;               Of children they do seem the worst. And Simon and I
do disagree;             He’s prone to sin continuallee. He horrors has, he oft
doth kick,               He prances, yells,—he will not work. Sometimes I think
he is too sick;               Sometimes I think he tries to shirk. But ’tis hard
for her, in either case,               Who B. Bobbet was in happier days.
Happier? Away! such thoughts I spurn. I count it true, from spring to fall,
’Tis better to be wed, and groan,               Than never to be wed at all. I’d
work my hands down to the bone             Rather than rest a maiden lone. This
truth I will not, cannot shirk,               I feel it when I sorrow most:
I’d rather break my back with work,               And haggard look as any
ghost,—             Rather than lonely vigils keep,             I’d wed and
sigh, and groan and weep. Yes, I can say, though tears fall quick,
Can say, while briny tear-drops start,             I’d rather wed a crooked
stick               Than never wed no stick at all. Sooner than laughed at be,
as of yore,               I’d rather laugh myself no more. I’d rather go half-
clad and starved,               And mops and dish-cloths madly wave,
Than have the words “B. Bobbet” carved               On headstun rising o’er my
grave. Proud thought! now, when that stun is risen,             ’Twill bear two
names—my name and hisen. Methinks ’twould colder make the stun               If
but one name, the name of she,             Should linger there alone—alone. How
different when the name of he             Does also deck the funeral urn;
Two wedded names,—his name and hurn. And sweeter yet, oh blessed lot! Oh state
most dignified and blest! To be a widder, calmly sot,               And have
both dignity and rest. Oh, Simon! strangely sweet ’twould be             To be a
widder unto thee. The warfare past, the horrors done,               With
maiden’s ease and pride of wife,             The dignity of wedded one,
The calm and peace of single life,—             Oh, strangely sweet this lot
doth seem;             A female widder is my theme. I would not hurt a hair of
he,             Yet, did he from earth’s toils escape,             I could most
reconciléd be,             Could sweetly mourn, e’en without crape,
Could say, without a pang of pain,             That Simon’s loss was Betsey’s
gain. I’ve told the plain tale of my woes,             With no deceit, or
language vain,             Have told whereon my hopes are rose,             Have
sung my mournful song of pain. And now I e’en will end my tale,             I’ve
sung my song, and wailed my wail. _I_ have made a practice of callin’ that
Poetry, bein’ one that despises envy and jealousy amongst female authoresses.
No, you never ketch me at it, bein’ one that would sooner help ’em up the ladder
than upset ’em, and it is ever my practice so to do. But truth must be spoke if
subjects are brung up. Uronious views must be condemned by Warriors of the
Right, whether ladders be upset or stand firm on their legs—poetesses also. I
felt that this poetry attacted a tender subject, a subject dearer to me than all
the world besides—the subject of Josiah. Josiah is a man. And I say it, and I
say it plain, that men hain’t no such creeters as she tries to make out they be.
Men are first-rate creeters in lots of things, and are as good as wimmen be any
day of the week. Of course I agree with Betsey, that husbands are tryin’ in lots
of things; they need a firm hand to the hellum to guide ’em along through the
tempestuous waves of married life, and get along with ’em. They are lots of
trouble, but then I think they pay after all. Why, I wouldn’t swap my Josiah for
the best house and lot in Jonesville, or the crown of the Widder Albert. I love
Josiah Allen. And I don’t know but the very trouble he has caused me makes me
cling closer to him. You know the harder a horse’s head beats aginst burdock
burs the tighter the burdocks will cling to its mane. Josiah makes me sights of
trouble, but I cling to him closely. I admit that men are curious creeters, and
very vain, and they hain’t willin’ to let well enough alone. They over-do, and
go beyond all sense and reason. A instance of these two strong traits of their’s
has jest occurred and took place, which, as a true historian relatin’ solemn
facts, I will relate in this epistol. Yes, men are tejus creeters a good deal of
the time. But then agin, so be wimmen, jest as tejus, and I don’t know but
tejuser. I believe my soul, if I had got to be born agin, I had jest as lieves
be born a man as a woman, and I don’t know but I drather. No, I don’t think one
sect ort to boast over the other one. They are both about equally foolish and
disagreeable, and both have their goodnesses and nobilities, and both ort to
have their rights. Now I hain’t one to set up and say men hadn’t ort to vote,
that they don’t know enough, and hain’t good enough, and so forth and so on. No,
you don’t ketch me at it. I am one that stands up for justice and reason.
[Illustration: THE WILD-EYED WOMAN.] Now, the other day a wild-eyed woman, with
short hair, who goes round a lecturin’ on wimmen’s rights, come to see me, a
tryin’ to inviggle me into a plot to keep men from votin’. Says she, “The time
is a drawin’ near when wimmen are a goin’ to vote, without no doubt.”

“Amen!” says I. “I can say amen to that with my hull heart and soul.”

“And then,” says she, “when the staff is in our own hands, less we wimmen all
put in together and try to keep men from votin’.”

“Never!” says I, “never will you get me into such a scrape as that,” says I.
“Men have jest exactly as good a right to vote as wimmen have. They are
condemned, and protected, and controlled by the same laws that wimmen are, and
so of course are equally interested in makin’ ’em. And I won’t hear another word
of such talk. You needn’t try to inviggle me into no plot to keep men from
votin’, for justice is ever my theme, and also Josiah.”

Says she, bitterly, “I’d love to make these miserable sneaks try it once, and
see how they would like it, to have to spend their property, and be hauled
around, and hung by laws they hadn’t no hand in makin’.”

But I still says, with marble firmness, “Men have jest as good a right to vote
as wimmen have. And you needn’t try to inviggle me into no such plans, for I
won’t be inviggled.”

And so she stopped invigglin’, and went off. And then again in Betsey’s poetry
(though as a neighbor and a female author I never would speak a word aginst it,
and what I say I say as a warrior, and would wish to be so took) I would say in
kindness, and strictly as a warrior, that besides the deep under-current of
foolishness that is runnin’ through it, there is another thought that I deeply
condemn. Betsey sot out in married life expectin’ too much. Now, she didn’t
marry in the right way, and so she ort to have expected tougher times than the
usual run of married females ort to expect; more than the ordinary tribulations
of matrimony. But she didn’t; she expected too much. And it won’t do to expect
too much in this world, anyway. If you can only bring your mind down to it, it
is a sight better to expect nothing, and then you won’t be disappointed if you
get it, as you most probable will. And if you get something it will be a joyful
surprise to you. But there are few indeed who has ever sot down on this calm
hite of filosify. Folks expect too much. As many and many times as their hopes
have proved to be uronious, they think, well now, if I only had that certain
thing, or was in that certain place, I should be happy. But they hain’t. They
find when they reach that certain gole, and have clim up and sot down on it,
they’ll find that somebody has got onto the gole before ’em, and is there a
settin’ on it. No matter how spry anybody may be, they’ll find that Sorrow can
climb faster than they can, and can set down on goles quicker. Yes, they’ll find
her there. It hain’t no matter how easy a seat anybody sets down in in this
world, they’ll find that they’ll have to hunch along, and let Disappointment set
down with ’em, and Anxiety, and Weariness, and et cetery, et cetery. Now, the
scholar thinks if he can only stand up on that certain hite of scientific
discovery, he will be happy, for he will know all that he cares about or wants
to. But when he gets up there, he’ll see plain; for the higher he is riz above
the mists of ignorance that floats around the lower lands, the clearer his
vision; and he will see another peak right ahead of him, steeper and loftier and
icier than the last, and so on ad infinitum, ad infinity. Jest as it was with
old Miss Peedick, our present Miss Peedick’s mother-in-law. She said (she told
me with her own lips) that she knew she should be happy when she got a glass
butter-dish. But she said she wasn’t; she told me with her own lips that jest as
quick as she got that she wanted a sugar-bowl. The lover thinks when he can once
claim his sweetheart, call her his own, he will be blessed and content; but he
hain’t. No matter how well he loves her, no matter how fond she is of him, and
how blest they are in each other’s love, they must think, anyway, that the
blessedness lacks one thing—permanence. And though he calls her his own, yet he
must feel, if he knows anything, that she is not his own; he must know that he
has to dispute for the possession of her daily with one stronger than he is. And
if he is tender-hearted and sensitive, the haunting fear must almost rack his
soul; the horrible dread of seeing her slip away from him altogether; of
sometime reaching out his arms, and finding that nowhere, nowhere can he find
her; that in place of her warm, beating heart, whose every throb was full of
love for him, is only the vacant spaces, the mysterious wave-beats of emptyness
and void; in place of the tender sweetness of her voice, the everlasting
silences of eternity. And though he seek her forever and forever, he can never
meet her; never, never, through all this earthly life, find her again. She, the
nearest and the dearest, so lately a part of his own life, his own soul, gone
from him so swiftly and so utterly, over such a trackless road, as to leave no
trace of her footsteps that he may follow her. And though he throw himself upon
the turf that covers her, and weary the calm heavens with his wild prayers and
questionings, no answer comes; his words fall back again upon his heart, like
dust upon dust. [Illustration: NO ANSWER.] And then, those who love him tell him
that the loving hands were unclasped from his that he might forever reach
upward, yearning, longing to clasp them again, that he might make his own hands
purer, fitter to clasp an angel’s fingers. That the bright tresses were hidden
away under the coffin-lid, that their immortal sheen might gleam through every
sunset and every dawning; heaven’s golden seal on the sunset of his joy, the
morning of his hope, his faith. That the sweet eyes were darkened here that they
might become to his sad heart the glowing light of the future. They say this to
him, and he listens to them—maybe. But if this does not happen to him, if his
sweetheart lives on beside him, he finds that this mighty presence steals
away—not love, for that is a bit of the infinite dropped down into our souls
unbeknown to us, and so is immortal; but he steals the golden sheen of the hair,
the eye’s bright luster, the young form’s strength and rounded beauty. Every
day, every hour, he is losing something of what he proudly called his own. You
see we don’t own much of anything in this world: it’s curious, but so it is. And
what we call our own don’t belong to us, not at all. That is one of the things
that makes this such an extremely curious world to live in. Yes, we are situated
extremely curious, as much so as the robins and swallows who build their nests
on the waving tree-boughs. We smile at the robin, with our wise, amused pity,
who builds her tiny nest with such laborious care high up, out on the waving
tree-top, swinging back and forth, back and forth, in every idle wind. Gathering
her straws and bits of wood with such patient and tireless care to weave about
the frail homes that are to be blown away by the chilly autumn winds, and they
also to be driven southward before the snows. But are not our homes, the sweet
homes of our tenderest love, built upon just as insecure foundations, hanging
over more mysterious depths, rocking to and fro, and swept to their ruin by a
breath from the Unknown? Our dreams, our hopes, our ambitions: what are ye all
but the sticks and straws that we weave about our frail nests? Throwing our
whole hearts and souls into them, toiling over them, building them for an
evanescent summer, to be swept away by the autumn winds. And we also, poor
voyagers, blown away through a pathless waste. But shall we not go unfearing,
believing that He who made a balmy south to fulfill the little summer bird’s
intuition, her blind hope and trust, has also prepared a place to fulfill our
deathless longin’s, our soul’s strongest desires? And over the lonely way, the
untried, desolate fields of the future, He will gently guide us thither. But I
am eppisodin’. I said I would relate in this epistol a instance of the devourin’
and insatiable vanity of man, and their invincible unwillingness to let well
enough alone. And so, although it is gaulin’ to me, gaulin’ in the extreme, to
speak of my companion’s weaknesses, yet, if medicine was not spread before
patients, how could colic be cured, and cramps, and etcetery? Yes, in the name
of Duty, as a warnin’ to the sect, dear to me (in a meetin’-house way) for his
sake of whom I write, I will proceed, and give a plain and unvarnished history
of Josiah’s serenade. [Illustration: E. WELLINGTON GANSEY.] Eliab Gansey, or E.
Wellington Gansey, as he has rote his name for years, has been here to
Jonesville on a visit. He lives to the Ohio. He is jest about Josiah’s age, and
used to be a neighbor of his’n. He was born here, and lived round here till he
got to be a young man. But he went to the Ohio to live when he was quite a young
chap, and made money fast, and got high in station. Why, some say he got as high
as clerk to town meetin’; I don’t know about that, but we do know that he got to
be a real big man anyway, and come home here on a visit, forehanded and weighin’
over 300. He was slim as a lucifer match when he went away, or a darnin’-needle.
Wall, his comin’ back as he did made a real commotion and stir in the
neighberhood. The neighbers all wanted to do sunthin’ to honor him, and make him
happy, and we all sort o’ clubbed together and got up a party for him, got as
good a dinner as ever Jonesville afforded, and held it in old Squire Gansey’s
dinin’-room. He was cousin to Liab on his father’s side, and had a big house and
lived alone, and urged us to have the party there. Wall, I approved of that
dinner, and did all I could to help it along. Talked encouragin’ about it to all
the neighberin’ wimmen, and baked two chicken-pies, and roasted a duck, and
other vittles accordin’. And the dinner was a great success. Liab seemed to
enjoy himself dretfully, and eat more than was for his good, and so did Josiah;
I told Josiah so afterwards. Wall, we had that dinner for him, all together (as
it were). And then we all of us invited him to our own homes seperate, to dinner
or supper, as the case might be. We used him first-rate, and he appreciated it,
that man did, and he would have gone home feelin’ perfectly delighted with our
treatment of him, and leavin’ us feelin’ first-rate, if it hadn’t been for
Josiah Allen, if he had been willin’ to take my advice and let well enough
alone. And what a happyfyin’ thing that is, if folks would only realize it,
happyfyin’ to the folks that let well enough alone, and happyfyin’ to them that
are let. But some are bound to over-do and go beyond all sense and reason. And
Josiah wasn’t contented with what he had done for Liab, but wanted to do more—he
was bound to serenade him. I argued and argued with him, and tried to get the
idee out of his head, but the more I argued aginst the idee, the more firm he
was sot onto it. He said it stood Jonesville in hand to treat that man to all
the honors they could heap onto him. And then he told me sunthin’ that I hadn’t
heard on before; that Liab talked some of comin’ back here to live: he was so
pleased with his old neighbors, they had all used him so well, and seemed to
think so much of him. “And,” says Josiah, “it will be the makin’ of Jonesville
if he comes back; and of me, too, for he talks of buyin’ my west lot for a
house-lot, and he has offered me 4 times what it is worth, of his own
accord,—that is, if he makes up his mind to come back.”

“Wall,” says I, “you wouldn’t take advantage of him, and take 4 times what it is
worth, would you?” Says I sternly: “If you do you won’t never prosper in your
undertakin’s.”

“He offered it himself,” says Josiah. “I didn’t set no price; he sot it himself.
And it wouldn’t be no cheatin’, nor nothin’ out of the way, to take it, and I
would take it with a easy conscience and a willin’ mind. But the stick is,” says
he dreamily, “the stick is to get him to come back. He likes us now, and if we
can only endear ourselves to him a little mite more he will come. And I am goin’
to work for it; I am bound to serenade him.”

Says I coldly: “If you want to endear yourself to him you are goin’ to work in
the wrong way.” And says I, still more frigidly: “Was you a layin’ out to sing
yourself, Josiah Allen?”

“Yes,” says he, in a animated way. “The way I thought of workin’ it was to have
about 8 of us old men, who used to be boys with him, get together and sing some
affectin’ piece under his winder; make up a piece a purpose for him. And I don’t
know but we might let some wimmen take a hand in it. Mebby you would want to,
Samantha.”

“No sir!” says I very coldly. “You needn’t make no calculations on me. I shall
have no hand in it at all. And,” says I firmly, “if you know what is best for
yourself, Josiah Allen, you will give up the idee. You will see trouble if you
don’t.”

“Wall, I s’pose it will be some trouble to us; but I am willin’ to take trouble
to please Liab, as I know it will. Why, if I can carry it out, as I think we
can, it will tickle that man most to death. Why, I’ll bet after hearin’ us sing,
as we shall sing, you couldn’t dog him from Jonesville. And it will be the
makin’ of the place if we can only keep him here, and will put more money into
my pocket than I have seen for one spell. And I know we can sing perfectly
beautiful, if we only set out to. I can speak for myself, anyway; I am a
crackin’ good singer, one of the best there is, if I only set out to do my
best.”

Oh! what a deep streak of vanity runs through the naters of human men. As many
times as it had been proved right out to his face that he couldn’t sing no more
than a ginny-hen, or a fannin’-mill, that man still kep’ up a calm and perennial
idee that he was a sweet singer. Yes, it is a deep scientific fact, as I have
often remarked to Josiah Allen, that the spring of vanity that gushes up in
men’s naters can’t be clogged up and choked. It is a gushin’ fountain that
forever bubbles over the brink with perennial and joyful freshness. No matter
how many impediments you may put in its way, no matter how many hard stuns of
disappointment and revilin’ and agony you may throw into that fountain, it won’t
do no more than to check the foamin’ current for a moment. But presently, or
sometimes even before that, the irrepressible fountain will soar up as foamin’ly
as ever. As many times, and times agin, as Josiah’s vanity had been trampled on
and beat down and stunned, yet how constant and clear it was a bubblin’ up and
meanderin’ right before my sight. And before I had got through allegorin’ in my
own mind about the curious and scientific subject, he gave me another proof of
it. Says he: “I don’t want you to think, Samantha, because I said I didn’t know
but we would let wimmen have a hand in it, I don’t want you to think that we
want any help in the singin’. We don’t want any help in the singin’, and don’t
need any; but I didn’t know but you would want to help compose some poetry on
Liab. Not but what we could do it first-rate, but its a kind o’ busy time of
year, and a little help might come good on that account.”

Says I, in a very dry tone,—very: “What a lucky thing it is for Tennyson and
Longfellow that you and old Bobbet are so cramped for time. There wouldn’t
probable be no call for their books at all, if you two old men only had time to
write poetry; it is dretful lucky for them.”

But I didn’t keep up that dry, sarcastical tone long. No, I felt too solemn to.
I felt that I must get his mind off of the idee if I possibly could. I knew it
would be putting the wrong foot forward to come right out plain and tell him the
truth, that he couldn’t sing no more than a steam-whistle or a gong. No, I knew
that would be the wrong way to manage. But I says, in a warnin’ and a awful sort
of a tone, and a look jest solemn and impressive enough to go with it:

“Remember, Josiah Allen, how many times your pardner has told you to let well
enough alone. You had better not try to go into any such doin’s, Josiah Allen.
You’ll sup sorrow if you do.”

But it was no use. In spite of all my entreaties and arguments they got it up
amongst ’em; composed some poetry (or what they _called_ poetry), and went and
sung it over (or what they _called_ singin’) night after night to the school-
house; practicin’ it secret so Liab shouldn’t hear of it, for they was a lottin’
on givin’ him such a joyful surprise. Wall, they practised it over night after
night, for over a week. And Josiah would praise it up so to me, and boast over
it so, that I fairly hated the word serenade. “Why,” says he, “it is perfectly
beautiful, the hull thirteen pieces we have learnt, but specially the piece we
have made up about him; that is awful affectin’.” And says he: “I shouldn’t
wonder a mite if Liab should shed tears when he hears it.”

And I’d tell him I persumed it was enough to bring tears from anybody. And that
would mad him agin. He would get mad as a hen at me. But I didn’t care. I knew I
was a talkin’ on principle, and I wasn’t goin’ to give in an inch, and I didn’t.
Wall, at last the night come that they had sot to serenade him. I felt like
cryin’ all the time he was a fixin’ to go. For next to bein’ a fool yourself, it
is gaulin’ to have a pardner make a fool of himself. But never, never, did I see
Josiah Allen so highlarious in his most highlarious times. He acted almost
perfectly happy. Why, you would have thought he was a young man to see him act.
It was fairly sickish, and I told him so. “Wall,” says he, as he started out,
“you can make light of me all you are a mind to, Samantha, but as long as Josiah
Allen has the chance to make another fellow-mortal perfectly happy, and put
money in his own pocket at the same time, he hain’t the feller to let the chance
slip.”

“Wall,” says I coldly, “shet the gate after you.”

I knew there wuzn’t no use in arguin’ any more with him about it. And I think it
is a great thing to know when to stop arguin’ or preachin’ or anythin’. It is a
great thing to know enough to stop talkin’ when you have got through sayin’
anythin’. But this is a deep subject; one I might allegore hours and hours on,
and still leave ample room for allegory. And to resoom and continue on, he
started off; and I wound up the clock, and undressed and went to bed, leavin’
the back-kitchen door onlocked. Wall, that was in the neighborhood of 10
o’clock. And I declare for’t, and I hain’t afraid to own it, that I felt afraid.
There I was all alone in the house, sunthin’ that hardly ever happened to me,
for Josiah Allen was always one that you couldn’t get away from home nights if
he could possibly help it; and if he did go I almost always went with him. Yes,
Josiah Allen is almost always near me; and though he hain’t probable so much
protection as he would be if he weighed more by the steelyards, yet such is my
love for him that I feel safe when he is by my side. I had read only a day or
two before about a number of houses bein’ broken open and plundered, besides
several cases of rapine; and though I hain’t, I persume, so afraid of burglers
as I would be if I had ever been burgled, and though I tried to put my best foot
forward, and be calm, still, the solemn thought would come to me, and I couldn’t
drive it away: Who knows but what this is the time that I shall be rapined and
burgled? Oh! what a fearful time I did have in my mind, as I lay there in my
usually peaceful feather-bed. Wall, I got wider and wider awake every minute,
and thinkses I, I will get up and light the lamp, and read a little, and mebby
that will quiet me down. So I got up and sot down by the buro, and took up the
last _World_; and the very first piece I read was a account of a house bein’
broke into, between ten o’clock and midnight, and four wimmen massacreed in
their beds. I laid down the _World_, and groaned loud. And then I sithed hard
several times. And right there, while I was a sithin’, sunthin’ come kerslop
aginst the window, right by my side. And though I hain’t no doubt it was a June
bug or a bat, still if it had been a burgler all saddled and bridled that had
rode up aginst my winder, it couldn’t have skairt me no worse, and I couldn’t
have jumped no higher, I was that wrought up and excited. [Illustration:
BURGLERS.] Wall, thinkses I, it is the light that has drawed that bat or June
bug aginst the winder, and mebby it will draw sunthin’ worse, and I believe I
will blow out the light and get into bed agin; I believe I will feel safer. So I
blowed the light out, and got into bed. Wall, I had lain there mebby ten
minutes, a tremblin’ and a quakin’, growin’ skairter and skairter every minute,
when all of a sudden I heard a rappin’ aginst my winder, and a hoarse sort of a
whisper sayin’:

“Josiah Allen! Josiah Allen! Miss Allen!”

It didn’t sound like no voice that I had ever heard, and I jest covered my head
up and lay there, with my heart a beatin’ so you could have heard it under the
bed. I _knew_ it was a burgler. I knew my time had come to be burgled.
[Illustration: THE GHOST.] Wall, the whisperin’ and the rappin’ kep’ up for
quite a spell, and then it kinder died off; and I got up and peeked through the
winder, and then I see a long white figger a movin’ off round the corner of the
house toward the back-kitchen. And then I was skairter still, for I knew it was
a ghost that was a appearin’ to me. And I had always said, and say still, that I
had ruther be burgled than appeared to. And there I lay, a tremblin’ and a
listenin’, and pretty soon I heard steps a comin’ into the back-kitchen, and so
along through the house up to my bedroom door. And then there come a rap right
onto my door. And though cold shivers was a runnin’ down my back, and goose-
pimples was present with me, I knew sunthin’ had got to be done. There I was
alone in the house with a ghost. And thinkses I, I must try to use it well, so’s
to get rid of it; for I thought like as not if I madded it, it would stick right
by me. And so I says, in as near the words I could remember, as I had hearn tell
they talked to spirits:

“Are you a good spirit?” says I. “If you are a good spirit, raise up and rap
three times.”

I s’pose my voice sounded low and tremblin’ down under the bed-clothes, and my
teeth chattered so loud that they probable drounded the words some. But the
rappin’ kep’ up. And says I agin: “If you are a likely spirit, raise up and rap
three times, and then leave.” And then says I, for I happened to think what I
had heard they done to get ’em away, for I had been that flustrated and horrer-
struck that I couldn’t think of nothin’ hardly, says I:

“I will you away. I will you off out of this house, if you please,” I added, for
I was so afraid of maddin’ it. Thinkses I to myself, I would ruther mad a
burgler or a rapiner ten times over than to get a apperition out with me. I
s’pose I had spoke up louder this time, for the ghost (or what I thought was
such) answered back to me, and says:

“I am Miss Moony.”

Says I: “Not she that was Tamer Sansey?”

“Yes, I be.”

Says I, in stern tones, for truth and rectitude is my theme, even in talkin’
with a apperition, and I felt, skairt as I was, that it would be better to
improve a ghost than to not be a doin’ anything in the cause of right. And so
says I firmly:

“Do you stop tellin’ such stuff to me.” Says I: “You are a lyin’ spirit. Tamer
Moony is alive and enjoyin’ middlin’ good health, if she wuzn’t so nervous.
Eliab Gansey is a visitin’ of her now. She never was a ghost, nor nothin’ like
it, and apperition or not, you shan’t stand there and lie to me.”

Says the voice: “Let me in, Miss Allen; I am Miss Moony, and I am most dead; I
am skairt most to death. And,” says she, “I want Josiah Allen to go over to our
house right off. Oh! I am most dead,” says she. I begun to grow calmer. I see it
wuzn’t no ghost, and says I: “Wait one minute, Miss Moony.”

And I ketched up the first weepon I could get holt of to defend myself, if she
should prove to be a imposter. It was Fox’es Book of Martyrs, and I calculated
in case of need to jest throw them old martyrs at her in a way she would
remember. But it didn’t prove to be no imposter. When I opened the door there
stood Tamer Moony a tremblin’ in her night-gown, with not a sign of a shoe nor a
stockin’ on her feet, nor a bonnet on, nor nothin’. [Illustration: TAMER MOONY.]
“Why, for the land’s sake, Tamer Moony” says I, “what is the matter? What are
you here at this time of night for, and in this condition?” says I. “Why,” says
she, a tremblin’ like a popple-leaf, “there is the awfulest goin’s on up to our
house that you ever see. There is murderin’ a goin’ on! Liab has been murdered
in cold blood!” says she, a wringin’ her hands, and groanin’ and sithin’ like a
wild woman. “What makes you think so?” says I. “What have you seen? Have you
been hurt? Where is Mandna?” says I. “Oh, Mandy has gone over to Dagget’s to
roust them up. Oh! Oh! them awful sounds! They are a ringin’ through my ears
yet!” says she, a wringin’ her hands and a groanin’ wilder than ever.
[Illustration: THE SERENADING PARTY.] Says I firmly, but kindly: “Tamer Moony,
try to be calm, and compose yourself down. Tell me jest what you have seen and
heerd, and how it begun.”

“Wall, in the first place, Mandana and I was rousted up out of sleep by hearin’
a noise down in the yard, and we got up and peeked through the winder, and we
see 7 or 8 men,—wild, savage-lookin’ men,—a prowlin’ along through the yard;
some of ’em walked with canes. I persume they had swords in ’em. Mandy thought
she see the swords—bloody swords. And as we stood there a peekin’ through the
blinds, we see ’em prowl their way along round the house towards Liab’s winder.
And then, a minute or two after, we heerd the awfulest sounds we ever heerd, the
most fearful and agonizin’. I s’pose it was Liab a groanin’ and screechin’ when
they killed him. And then they seemed to screech out and yell the most harrowin’
and blood-curdlin’ sounds I ever heerd. Mandy said she knew they was Injuns. No
other race could have made such hideous and unearthly noises. She said she had
heerd that Injuns gin jest such awful and melancholy yells when they was on the
war-path. “Wall, them awful sounds took every mite of our strength away. We
stood there tremblin’ like two leaves, till finally we made out to totter down
the back stairs; and she run to Dagget’ses, and I started acrost the lots here,
for we thought the hull neighborhood ort to be rousted up. I am most dead! Oh!
poor Liab! poor Liab! And his wife and childern happy at home! Who will carry
the awful news to ’em? He was probable killed before I got out of the house. I
thought I suffered when I lost my husband and 4 childern within a year, but this
goes ahead of anything I ever see. So harrowin’ and awful; to have Liab, my only
brother, killed right under my ruff, and I couldn’t help it. Oh! what shall I
do? What shall I do?”

I see she was jest a tumblin’ over into a historical fit, and I laid her down on
my bed, and broke it to her gradual, what the trouble was. And then she had the
historicks worse than ever. She broke out into a laugh so loud that you could
hear her clear to the road, and then she broke out a cryin’ so you could hear
her et cetery and the same. And then she would claw right into me, and tear and
rip round. But good land! she didn’t know what she was a doin’, she was so full
of the historicks. She was jest a pullin’ and a tearin’ at the bottom sheet when
Josiah Allen came a meachin’ in. A meachiner-lookin’ creeter I never beheld. And
from what I learned afterwards, well he might meach. And as bad as he looked, he
looked worse when I says to him, says I:

“I told you, Josiah Allen, to let well enough alone, but you wouldn’t; and you
can see now what you have done with your serenadin’ and foolery. You have killed
Miss Moony, for what I know, and,” says I, in still sterner axents, “a hull
piece of factery cloth won’t make our loss good.”

Then Josiah groaned awful, and says I:

“What worse effects have follered on after your serenadin’, I don’t know.”

Josiah kep’ on a groanin’ pitifuller and pitifuller, and I see then that his
head was all bruised up. It looked as if he had been pelted with sunthin’ hard,
and there was a bunch riz up over his left eye as big as a banty’s egg, and it
was a swellin’ all the time stiddy and constant. And from that night, right
along, I kep’ bread and milk poultices on it, changin’ from lobelia to catnip,
as I see the swellin’ growed or diminished. [Illustration: THE BRUISED JOSIAH.]
His sufferin’s was awful, and so was mine, for all the first 3 days and nights I
thought it would mortify, do the best I could, it looked that black and angry.
His agony with it was intense, and also with his mind—his mind bein’ near the
swellin’, made it worse, mebby—his mortification and disapointment was that
overwhelmin’ and terrible. It was the water-pitcher, as I hearn afterwards, that
Liab had pelted him with. I s’pose from what I heerd afterwards, that they had
the awfulest time that was ever heard of in Jonesville, or the world. Liab jest
throwed everything at ’em he could lay his hands on. Why, them old men was jest
about killed. He pretended to think they was burglers and tramps, but I never
believed it for a minute. I believe it madded him to be waked up out of a sound
sleep, and see them 8 old creeters makin’ perfect fools of themselves. Some
think that he had been kinder sot up by some jealous-minded person, and made to
think the Jonesvillians wanted to make money out of him, and cheat him; and he
was always dretful quick-tempered, that everybody knows. And some think that he
thought it was a lot of young fellers dressed up in disguise, a tryin’ to make
fun of him, callin’ him “Eliab.” He always hated the name Eliab, and had felt
above it for years, and wrote his name E. Wellington Gansey. But as he left on
the first train in the morning, I don’t s’pose we shall ever know the hull truth
of the matter. [Illustration: THE SERENADE.] But anyway, whatever was the cause,
he bruised up them old men fearful. Eliab was strong and perseverin’, and a good
calculator, or he never could have laid up the property he had. Every blow hit
jest where it would hurt the worst. He pelted them old men perfectly fearful.
They had composed a lot of verses—over 20 they say there was of ’em—that they
was a layin’ out to sing to him. They didn’t sing but 3, I believe, when the
first boot hit ’em, but they say they kep’ on singin’ the next verse, bein’
determined to mollify him down, till they got so bruised and battered up that
they had to flee for their very lives. The verses run like this:

Who did from the Ohio come                To visit round in his old home,
And make the neighbers happy, some? Eliab. With melody we him will cheer,
And keep Eliab Gansey here. Who is this man we love so dear? Eliab. If music
sweet as can be had                Can sooth thee, make thee blest and glad,
Then never more shalt thou be sad,

Eliab. I s’pose it was jest at this very minute that the washbowl flew and
struck old Bobbet in the small of the back, and crumpled him right down; he was
sort o’ bent over the accordeon. They didn’t play the accordeon all the time
they was singin’, as I have been told, but between the verses; jest after they
would sing “Eliab,” they would play a few notes sort o’ lively. It was Josiah’s
idee, as I heard afterwards, their takin’ the accordeon. They couldn’t one of
’em play a tune, or anything that sounded like a tune, but he insisted it would
look more stylish to have some instrument, and so they took that old accordeon
that used to belong to Shakespeare Bobbet. They had planned it all out, and had
boasted that they had got up something in their own heads that hadn’t never been
heerd of in Jonesville. And well they might say so, well they might. Wall, there
wasn’t one of them 8 old fellers that was good for anything for the next 4
weeks. Eliab’s folks try to make the best of it. They say now that Eliab always
did, when he was first rousted up out of a sound sleep, act kinder lost and
crazy. They tell that now to kind o’ smooth it over, but I think, and I always
shall think, that he knew jest who he was a hittin’, and what he was a hittin’
’em with. It was the glass soap-dish that struck old Dagget’s nose. And I wish
you could have seen that nose for the next 3 weeks. It used to be a Roman, but
after that night it didn’t look much like a Roman. Eliab’s boots was the very
best of leather, and they had a new-fashioned kind of heels, some sort o’ metal
or other, and Cornelius Cook says they hit as powerful as any cannon balls
would; he goes lame yet. You know the shin-bone is one of the tenderest bones in
the hull body to be hit aginst. It was the bootjack that hit the Editor of the
Augur’ses head. His wife was skairt most to death about him, and she says to
me—she had come over to see if she could get some wormwood—and she says:

“He never will get over that bootjack in the world, I don’t believe. His head is
swelled up as big as two heads ought to be.”

And says I: “It always happens so, don’t it, that the weakest spot is the one
that always gets hit?”

I was sorry for her as I could be. And I gin her the wormwood, and recommended
her to use about half and half smartweed. Says I: “Smartweed is good for the
outside of his head, and if it strikes in it won’t hurt him none.”

I felt to sympathize with her. Old Sansey hain’t got over the slop-jar yet. It
brought on other complaints that he was subject to, and the Dr. says he may get
over it, and he may not. But as bad as it was for all the rest, it was the worst
for Josiah Allen—as bad agin. It wuzn’t so much the hurt he got that night,
though I thought for quite a spell that it would have to be operated on, and I
didn’t know but it would prove to be his death-blow. And it wuzn’t so much our
sufferin’s with Miss Moony, though them was fearful, bein’ up with her all that
night, and workin’ over her to keep the breath of life in her, and she a clawin’
at us, and a ketchin’ holt of us, and a laughin’, and a cryin’. We had to send
for the neighbors, we was that skairt about her, and Josiah had to go for the
doctor right in the dead of night, with his head a achin’ as if it would split
open. And it wuzn’t so much the thought of losin’ Eliab and money, though Josiah
was dretfully attached to both, and he felt the loss of both on ’em more deeply
than tongue can ever tell. But that wuzn’t where the deepest piece of iron
entered his soul. It was to think his singin’ had got called so all to nort. He
thought he was such a sweet, dulcet harmonist; he had gloated and boasted so
over his lovely, melodious voice, and thought he was goin’ to be admired so for
it; and then to think his singin’ had skairt two wimmen most to death, had
skairt one into fits, anyway—for if ever a woman had a historical fit Tamer
Moony had one that night. And instead of his serenade winnin’ Liab’s love and
money, it had disgusted him so that he had pelted him most to death. Oh! it was
a fearfully humiliatin’ blow to his vanity. The blow on his forward wasn’t to be
compared to the soreness of the blow onto his vanity, though the swellin’ on his
forward was bigger than a butnut, and as sore as any bile I ever see. Yes, I
have seen Josiah Allen in tryin’ places, time and agin, and in places calculated
to make a man meach, but never, never did I see him in a place of such deep
meachin’ness and gloom as he was that night after he had come home with Doctor
Bamber. There he was, at the very time, the very night, when he had lotted on
bein’ covered with admiration and glory like a mantilly, there he wuz lookin’,
oh, so pitiful and meek, bowed down by pain, contumily, and water-pitchers. And
he happened to pass by the bed where Miss Moony lay, and she, bein’ blind with
historicks, laid holt of him, and called him “Mandana.” She clutched right into
his vest, and held him tight, and says she:

“Oh Mandana! Oh! them awful voices! Oh! them horrible, screechin’ yells! I can’t
forget ’em,” says she. “They are ringin’ through my ears yet.”

And then Dr. Bamber and the neighbors knew all about what it wuz that had skairt
her so; there they stood a laughin’ in their sleeves (as it were). And Josiah
standin’ there, lookin’ as if he must sink. And there Samantha wuz, who had
vainly argued with him, and entreated him to let well enough alone.
[Illustration: MANDANA! MANDANA!] Yes, Josiah Allen was in a hard place, a very
hard place. But he couldn’t get away from her, so he had to grin and bear it.
For he couldn’t onclench her hands; she had a sort of a spazzum right there, a
holdin’ him tight. And every time she would come to a little, she would call him
“Mandana,” and yell about them “awful, blood-curdlin’ screeches.” It was a
curious time—very. Wall, she got better after a while. Dr. Bamber give her
powerful doses of morpheen, and that quelled her down. But morpheen couldn’t
quiet down Josiah Allen’s feelin’s, nor ease the sore spot in his vanity. No!
all the poppies that ever grew in earthly gardens couldn’t do it. He never will
start out a seranadin’ agin, I don’t believe—never. I hain’t one to be a
twittin’ about things. But sunthin’ happened to bring the subject up the other
mornin’ jest after breakfast, and I says this, I merely observed this to him:

“Wall, you wanted to make a excitement, Josiah Allen, and you did make one.”

“Wall, wall! who said I didn’t?”

Says I: “You have most probable done your last seranadin’.”

I said this in a mild and almost amiable axent, but you ort to heard how that
man yelled up at me. Says he: “If I was a woman, and couldn’t keep from talkin’
so dumb aggravatin’, I’d tie my tongue to my teeth. And if you are a goin’ to
skim the milk for that calf, why don’t you _skim_ it?”

“Wall,” says I mildly, “I hain’t deef.”

[Illustration: A STITCH IN THE BACK.] [Illustration]

JUDAS WART AND SUFFERIN’ WIMMIN. One mornin’, not long after Miss Bobbet’s
visit, I was a doin’ up my mornin’s work. I had been a little belated, for my
companion Josiah, while fodderin’, had been took in his back sudden and violent
with a stitch. He is subject to such stitches, but they are very painful and
inconvenient. All the way he could walk round the house was by leanin’ upon a
broom-stick. He found the broom-handle in the barn, and come in leanin’ heavy on
it, and groanin’ powerful and frequent. It skairt me awfully. I never hinted to
him that I thought more’n as likely as not that stitch was sent as a judgment;
no, I held firm, and kep’ my tongue still with almost giant force. That day,
when the sun had rose up clear and lofty in the heavens, was the time I had
calculated to tackle him. But I was too honorable to tackle a pardner who was
down with a stitch. No, I treated him well, bathed his back in linament, and he
was a lyin’ behind the stove on the lounge, as comfortable as anybody could be
in his situation of back and conscience. [Illustration: ELDER JUDAS WART.] As I
said, I was a washin’ up my dishes in the buttery, when all of a sudden in
walked Elder Judas Wart. The door was open, it bein’ a pleasant mornin’, and he
jest rapped at the side of the door, and walked in. I guess he didn’t see
Josiah, the lounge bein’ kinder behind the door; but he seemed dretful tickled
to see me—tickleder fur than I was. Though, havin’ my mission in view, I used
him well, and sot him a chair. But little did I think what was before me; little
did I think what the awfulness of his first words to me would be. He hadn’t been
in that house five minutes, for I know I had only jest hung up my dish-cloth
(for knowin’ what a tussle of principle was ahead of me, and feelin’ as if I
should need all my strength in the conflict, I left the heaviest of my dishes to
wash at noon, for the first time in over fourteen months). Wall, if you can
believe it, jest as I got that dish-cloth hung up, that man, with no
phraseoligies or excuses or anything, that man up and says:

[Illustration: RESCUING THE ELDER.] “I have heard, and I see for myself, that
you are a very smart woman, and you could do wonders in the true church if you
was married to some leadin’ man,—to me, for instance,” says he, bold as brass,
“or was sealed to me,” says he, spittin’ hard onto the floor. But that man
hadn’t hardly got that seal and that tobacco-juice out of his mouth, when Josiah
Allen sprung up and leveled that broom-stick at him with a deadly aim. I sprung
forward and threw the end of the broom-stick up jest in time to save the Elder’s
life. I forced him to desist, I and the stitch; for truly the effort was too
much for him. The stitch griped him awful, and he sunk back with a agonizin’
groan. I wanted Josiah to stay his hand and the broom-stick for two reasons. One
was, I didn’t want the Elder killed quite so quick—not till after I had had a
chance to convert him. And another reason was, I thought of my deep agony and a
Widder Bump, and thinkses I to myself, though the medicine is fearful to
administer, as gaulin’ and bitter as wormwood and sicuta biled down in tar and
vinegar, still I felt it was what my companion needed to show him the
nefariousness and heniousness of Mormonism, in its true light. I wouldn’t in his
present weakness of mind and back, throw the Widder Bump in his face, as I might
have done. Some pardners would have jest turned round on him, as he lay there on
that lounge, and throwed that woman full and square in his face. But I didn’t. I
see he was a sufferin’ enough without that. He was takin’ the matter to himself
like a blister, as anybody has got to, in order to feel the smart. A blister
don’t draw half so powerful, nor feel half so bad, when it is on somebody
else’es back, as it does when it is on our’n. He was a meditatin’ how it would
seem to his heart to lose the companion of his youth and middle age. He was a
eatin’ of that sass which ganders think is quite good for geese to eat. He was
seein’ now how it would relish to a gander. I pitied him from the bottom of my
heart, his looks was such. But Elder Judas Wart had no such feelin’s of pity and
sympathy, and bein’ excited by Josiah’s ragin’ wrath, and maddened by the broom-
stick, he spoke out, in a angry, sarcastical tone:

“Your husband felt different on this subject last spring. He seemed almost
inclined at one time to take to himself another helpmate. There was a certain
widder, there”—

“You lie, sir!” says Josiah, springin’ up to his feet. “There wuzn’t no widder
there, and I never was there.”

“Never was where?” says I, in a awful voice; for curiosity and various other
emotions was a hunchin’ me, as hard as ever a woman was hunched by ’em. “I never
was anywhere! I never was to their meetin’s, nor to nowhere else.”

“Where wuz you, then?” says I, in that same strange voice. “I told you I wuzn’t
_nowhere_, didn’t I?” he yelled out in fearful axents. But Elder Judas Wart went
right on a talkin’ to me, stiddy as fate, and as hard to be turned round as she.
“He seemed then to look at the Widder”—

“I never looked at a widder! I never see none! I never see a widder in my life!”

Says I: “Josiah Allen, be calm!”

“I tell you I won’t be calm! And I tell you there hain’t no widders there—nor
hain’t never been any—nor nowhere else—nor I never heard of any.”

He was delerious, and I see that he was. But Elder Judas Wart kep’ right on,
with a haughty, proud axent:

“He seemed then to look favorably upon the widder I have lately espoused. The
Widder Bump; don’t you remember her?”

“No! I don’t remember no such widder, and I don’t believe there was any by that
name.”

“Why,” says I, “Josiah Allen, she made that coat you have got on. Don’t you
remember it?”

“No! I don’t! She didn’t make it! It wuzn’t made! I never had none.”

“Why, Josiah Allen,” says I, “what will become of you if you tell such stories?”

“There won’t nothin’ become of me, nor never will; there never has nothin’
become of me.”

But jest as he said this, the stitch ketched him agin powerful and strong, and
he sunk down on the lounge, a groanin’ violent. I see he was delerious with pain
of body, and fur deeper, more agonizin’ pain of mind, contrition, shame,
remorse, and various other emotions. And then, oh, the strength and power of
woman’s love! As that man lay there, with all his past weakness and wickedness
brought out before me, stricken with agony, remorse, and stitches, I loved him,
and I pitied him. I felt that devoted, yearnin’, tender feelin’ for him to that
extent that I felt in my heart that if it were possible I could take that stitch
upon me, and bear it onward myself, and relieve my pardner. Women’s love is a
beautiful thing, a holy thing, but curious, very. I reviled my pardner not, but
covered him tenderly up with my old woolen shawl, sot the broomstick up against
the lounge, and he lay there and never said another word, only at intervals—when
a pain of uncommon size would ketch him in his back or conscience, he would
groan loud and agonizin’. But I see it was no use to argue with him then about
the Widder Bump. But if you’ll believe it, I can’t make him to this day say
nothin’ different. I have had a great many talks with him on the subject, but,
he says, “She is a woman he never see.”

And the nearest I ever made him own up to it was once when I had talked real
good to him, talked to him about his past wickedness and tottlin’ morals, and
told him how I knew his morals was straightened and propped up now, good and
sound, and his affections stabled and firm sot where they should be sot. I
talked awful good to him, and he seemed to be sort o’ melted down. And he owned
up “that it did seem to him as if he had heard, when he was a child, of a woman
by that name, that lived somewhere near here. It was either that name, or
Bumper—he couldn’t for his life tell which.”

And I gin up then. Truly there are strange pages in a man’s nater, filled with
curious language, curiouser than conundrums: who can read ’em? As I said, havin’
the aim in my mind that I did have, havin’ a desire to let Josiah Allen get a
full taste of that sass that he, as well as other ganders, find is fur different
to eat themselves, and to stand haughtily on one leg (to foller out the gander
simely) and see their mates eat it. Havin’ a desire to let him get a full
glimpse of the awful depth and blackness and horrer of the abyss he had
suspended himself over, I did not rebuke Elder Judas Wart as I should, had it
not been for that. I merely told him, when he said sunthin’ agin about my bein’
sealed to him—I merely said to him, with dignity and firmness:

Says I, “If you say that word seal to me agin, I’ll seal you in a way you won’t
never want to be sealed!” Says I, in still more awful tones, glancin’ at the
bilin’ teakettle, “If you say that word to me agin in my house, I’ll scald you,
if it is the last work I ever do in my life, and I am hung for it the next
minute.”

My face was red; I was fearfully excited with my almost giant efforts to control
myself. To think that he should dare to approach me! me! Josiah Allen’s wife!
with his infamous offer. He see that my looks was gettin’ terrible and scareful,
and he hastened to say:

“I meant it in a religious way.”

And I was that excited and mad, that I spoke right up and says, “Wall! I’ll
scald you in a religious way;” and I added, in a firm, low tone, “But I’ll bet a
cent you won’t never want to be scalded agin as long as you live.”

Says he, in a sort of a apologizin’, meachin’ way, “It is my religion to marry
various wives.”

[Illustration: HOT WATER.] “Wall,” says I, still clingin’ to my simely, as great
oriters always do, “It is my religion to scald you, if you don’t stop your
insultin’ talk instantly and to once! You can’t talk no such stuff in the house
of her who was once Smith,” says I, glancin’ agin at the teakettle, and steppin’
up a little nearer to it. “Be composed, mum,” says he, a hitchin’ up his chair a
little nearer the door; “Be composed! I was speakin’ in a strictly religious
sense.”

Says I, “You can’t never make me think a crime can be committed religiously.”
And agin I looked longin’ly at that teakettle. “Compose yourself down, mum, and
let us argue for a brief spell,” says he. His tone was sort o’ implorin’ and
beseechin’. And he took a plug of tobacco out of his coat-pocket, and bit a
great chew off’en it, and put it into his mouth, I s’pose to try to show off and
make himself attractive. But good land! how foolish it was in him. He didn’t
look half so well to me as he did before, and that hain’t sayin’ but a very
little, a very little indeed. He wadded the tobacco all up on one side of his
mouth, till his cheek stood out some like a wen, and the tobacco-juice started
and run down on each side of his chin. And so, havin’ fixed himself, I s’pose,
so his looks suited him, he says agin:

“Less argue the subject.”

I see that here was the chance I had wanted to convince him of his iniquity. I
see that Duty was leadin’ a war-horse up in front of me all saddled and bridled,
ready for me to mount and career onward nobly on the path of Right.
[Illustration: “LESS ARGUE.”]

I see that Duty was holdin’ in this charger by the martingills with one hand,
and with the other she was holdin’ out a pair of spurs to me. And though never,
never, did a war-horse look so prancin’ and dangerous to me, and never did spurs
look so heavy and sharp and tejus to my achin’ heels, yet Josiah Allen’s wife is
not one to turn her back to Duty’s call—no, my desire to battle with the wrong,
my martyrous spirit curbed me in and let me hear him talk. And he went on to
tell me that in the first place he wanted to lay before me the rise, progress,
and glory of the Mormon Church. Says he, “In the first place, you know, mum,
that God made a distinct revelation to us. Our bible was found written on plates
of gold. Them plates”—

I am naturally very well-bread. And thinkin’ mebby it would influence him
towards the right, I didn’t lay out to interrupt him, or disturb his arguments,
till he had got through presentin’ of ’em. But the idee of such
imposture—imposture in the name of God—so worked on me, that I spoke right out,
in a firm, dignified tone, but very solemn:

“Elder Judas Wart, you jest pass them plates.”

Says he: “Why should I pass ’em? The revelation of God is written on ’em.”

“Revelation!” says I. “I should jest as soon go into my buttery, and read my
meat plates and platters, as to read ’em. I should find jest as much of a
revelation on ’em.” And agin I says, with dignity: “You pass them plates.”

Says he: “I wont pass ’em.” And he begun agin, in a sort of a boastin’ way:
“September 22, 1827, the angel Moroni placed in Joseph Smith’s hand our Mormon
bible, or that is, the plates, that”—

Says I: “Hain’t I told you to pass them plates? Your bible is a romance writ by
Solomon Spaulding jest for fun, jest to see how near he could write like the
bible. And it is a powerful lesson to me, and should be to everybody, of the
terrible harvest that may spring up from one careless, thoughtless deed. The
awful consequences, the sin, and the woe that followed that one irreverent,
thoughtless act might well make us all more thoughtful, more mindful of the
terrible responsibility that follows all our acts, the smallest as well as the
greatest. We can’t shake off that personal responsibility. It follers us tight
as our shadders even into our hours of recreation, showin’ us that we should not
only work nobly, but recreate nobly and innocently and reverently.”

“But,” says he “them plates”—

But I was so rousted up with my emotions, that I waved out my right hand with
awful dignity, and says I:

“You _shall_ pass them plates.”

And I held firm, and made him pass ’em. And he went to bringin’ up the miracles
that had been done by the early church—curing the lame and deaf, healing the
sick, and et cetery, and so forth. Says he: “I have heard that you are a woman
that loves reason and fair play,” and says he, “you can’t get over those
miracles, can you?”

Says I candidly: “I don’t want to get over no miracles, and hain’t tried to. But
I can say with the poet, that so far as believin’ of ’em is concerned, miracles
is sunthin’ I had rather see done myself than to hear of ’em. Howsumever, I
hain’t a goin’ to say that you hain’t done ’em. As to healin’ the sick, the
wonderful power and magnetism one strong mind can exert over a weaker one, when
the weaker one has perfect faith in it, has a great many times performed deeds
that looked miracilas, out of the Mormon church, and most probable in it. But
even if you have raised the dead, which I don’t think you claim you have done,
it would make me no more a believer in mormonism; for we read of a woman not
religious, who did that. And I never hankered after keepin’ company with Miss
Endor, or wanted to neighbor with her, or appear like her.”

“You are unreasonable, mum,” says he. “I don’t mean to be,” says I. “I have
allowed all you want me to, and more too. What more can you want?”

“You deride our holy church. Our church foundered on the Commandments of God.”

“Which one?” says I enquirin’ly. “Which one?” says he haughtily. “Every one of
’em; every one of ’em.”

“Wall,” says I calmly and reasonably, but with quite a lot of dignity, “we’ll
see.” And I was risin’ up to go and get the Bible offen the stand, for I was
determined he should see ’em in black and white, when he spoke out haughtily and
proudly:

“Keep your seat, mum; keep your seat. I have the Bible here in my breast pocket.
Our church bein’ foundered on the Commandments, leanin’ up aginst ’em as we do
for all our strength and safety, I don’t depend on Bibles layin’ round loose on
stands, and so forth. I carry a copy all the time right over my heart, or pretty
near over it—on the left side of my vest, anyway.”

Says I: “There is different ways of carryin’ things in the heart. But that is a
deep subject, and I will not begin to episode upon it, for if I should begin, no
knowin’ how fur I should episode to, but will merely say that there is other
ways of carryin’ things in your heart besides carryin’ ’em in your vest pocket.
But howsumever, read off the first one.” And he read it:

“Thou shalt have no other Gods before me.”

He read it off jest like a text. And the minute he stopped I begun to talk on it
a good deal like preachin’, only shorter; but with jest about the same dignity
and mean that preachers have. Says I, in that firm, preachin’ tone: “You have
made Brigham Young a God. Your preacher, whom you call a ‘model saint,’ openly
avowed that he was God. You have pretended to believe, and have taught to the
people his blasphemus doctrine that he had power to save souls in the heavenly
kingdom, or to shut ’em out of it.” Says I: “I could spread out this awful idee,
and cover hours with it, and then not make it very thin, either; there is so
much that could be said on the awfulness of it. But I have got nine more jobs
jest like it ahead on me to tackle, so enough, and suffice it to say, fetch on
your next one. He was goin’ to branch out and say sunthin’, but I held to my
first idee, and wouldn’t let him. I told him if I argued with him at all, he had
got to read those Commandments off jest like texts, and let me preach on ’em. I
told him after I had got through with ’em, then he could rise up and explain his
mind, and talk; but jest at present it was the commands of God I wanted to
hear—not the words of Elder Judas Wart. And I held firm, and made him. And when
he would begin to argue I would call for another one, and kep’ him at it. “Thou
shalt not make unto thee any graven image * * * * thou shalt not bow down to
them, nor serve them”—

Says I: “You have done that and worse. You have worshipped and revered an image
of clay—rather weak clay, too, though held up by a mighty will and ambition.
Why, most anybody would say that a graven image would be sounder than he
was—more sort o’ solid and substantial. Anyway, it wouldn’t wobble round as he
wobbled, preachin’ one thing to-day, and denyin’ it to-morrow, jest as his own
interests dictated. And the graven image wouldn’t have been so selfish and
graspin’ and unscrupulus. It would have been fur honester, and wouldn’t have
wanted more’n a hundred wives. But that image of clay, such as it was, you sot
up and worshipped, and you needn’t deny it.”

He didn’t try to. He knew it wouldn’t be no use to, and says he:

“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.”

Says I, in a firm, awful axent, “You have taken it in vain, the weakest kind of
vanity, and you have taken it wickedly, the wickedest kind of wickedness, in
darin’ to commit this sin in the name of God.”

Says he, “Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.”

Says I, “You have kept it holy, by teachin’ this unholy sin. By assemblin’ at
the tabernacle to listen to words so low, and vulgar, and weak that they would
be contemptible, if they were not so wicked and blasphemous.”

Says he, “Honor thy father and thy mother.” He spoke up awful quick and some
haughty. He felt what I had said, I knew it by his mean, and he seemed to read
this with a air as if this was sunthin’ he could lean aginst hard, and nobody
could hender its bein’ a support to him. He looked sort o’ independent and
overbearin’ at me as he finished readin’ it, and he spit on the floor in a sort
of a proud way. But I went right on, in a deep and impressive axent, and says I,
“You have made that commandment impossible for your children to follow. You have
wickedly deprived your children of one of the holiest and most sacred things in
life. A child’s right to honor the parents they love, and feel it their duty to
reverence. But how can anybody, unless he is a fool or a luny, honor what hain’t
honorable? How can a child honor a parent whose hands are stained with innocent
blood, who is enriched by theft and rapine, who is living in open shame—in open
defiance to the commonest rules of morality—who breaks all the commandments of
God, and calls it religion?”

[Illustration: MOUNTAIN MEADOWS.] Says he, “Thou shalt not kill.”

Says I, “The teachers of your religion say, Thou _shalt_ kill, if it is for the
safety and enrichment of the Mormon church. And, following their commands
instead of God’s, you killed one hundred and 20 innocent men, wimmen, and
children in one day. And how many other murders have been committed by orders of
your church, in those lonely deserts and mountain roads and canyons, will never
be known till the searchin’ light of the great day of doom reveals all secret
things. Why,” says I, “Brigham Young taught that Mormons should shed each
other’s blood for the remission of sins.”

He looked meachin’, very. He didn’t try to argue on this—he couldn’t, for he
knew I could prove what I had said. And he looked meachiner yet, as he read the
next one:

“Thou shalt not commit adultery.”

Says I, “The hull Mormon church is built up on the ruins of this broken
commandment, and you know it. And you teach this doctrine, that the more pieces
you break this commandment into, the higher it is goin’ to boost you up into
heaven. The meaner and lower you be on earth, the higher place you will have in
the heavenly kingdom—”

Says he, interruptin’ of me with a look of fearful meach restin’ on his eyebrow,
and speakin’ up dretful quick:

“Thou shalt not steal.”

Says I, “Your church teaches, ‘thou _shalt_ steal.’ And you have to do it too,
and you know it.”

Says he, “Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighber.”

Says I, “Ask the unhappy Gentiles who have incurred the displeasure or aroused
the cupidity of the Mormon church, whether the Mormon commandment, ‘Thou _shalt_
bear false witness against thy neighber,’ has not been followed, and followed,
too, to the death.”

“Thou shalt not covet”—and he said over the hull on ’em—wife, property, and
maidservant. Says I, “Your church teaches thou shalt covet ’em, every one of
’em, and get ’em, too, the hull on ’em—wife, property, and maidservant,
’specially the maidservant.”

He quailed. And right there, while he was a quailin’, I spoke, and says coldly:

“Now, Elder Judas Wart, you have read off the commandments of God, one by one,
and I have preached on ’em; now tell me, and tell me plain, which one do you
lean on the hardest?”

Says he, “As it were—that is, you know—”

“No!” says I, with dignity, “I don’t know, nor you don’t, nuther.”

Says he, “I—that is—you—you are unreasonable, mum.” And he looked curious, and
spit fiercely onto the stone hearth and the floor. “I don’t mean to be,” says I.
“I sot out in this talk with principles as hefty as I ever hefted in my life,
and if I hain’t a good judge of the common heft of principles, nobody ever was.
Why,” says I, “the rights and wrongs of my sect has for years been held nearer
to my heart than any earthly object, exceptin’ my Josiah. And I can tell you,
and tell you plain, that I have laid awake nights a thinkin’ over what my sect
has endured a settin’ under that Mormon church. And daytimes I have sot a
knittin’ and thought of the agonies of them female wimmen till there wuzn’t a
dry eye in my head, and I couldn’t tell for my life whether I was a seamin’ or a
knittin’ plain, or what I was a doin’. For of all the sufferin’s my sect has
suffered from the hands of man, this doctrine of polygamy is the very crown, the
crown of thorns. Other wrongs and woes have spilte earth for her time and agin,
but this destroys her hope of heaven. When other sorrows and wrongs broke her
heart, killed her, she could still look to the time when she could take the hand
of Death, the Healer, and he would lead her into Repose, give her the peace
earth had denied her. She could think that all her burdens of sorrows and wrongs
would drop from her into the grave; and in that land where all tears are wiped
away—that land of eternal beauty—of sweet consolation for the weary—she could
find rest. But this last hope of the broken-hearted, your accursed doctrine has
destroyed. Your infamous belief teaches that if a woman won’t do wrong, won’t
submit to man’s tyrannical will on earth, commit sin for his sake, he won’t let
her go to heaven! Good land!” says I, “it makes me sweat to think on’t.” And I
wiped my forward on my apron. Says he: “As it were, you know.”

“No, I don’t know it,” says I warmly. “Nor I never shall know it.”

Says he: “And so forth, and so on.”

He acted embarassed and skairt, and well he might. Why, the abomination of their
doctrine is so abominable, that when it is presented to ’em in a eloquent, high-
toned way by a woman who talks but little, but that little earnest and deep;
when she places it before ’em in the axent she always handles when talkin’ on
principle, and with the soarin’, deep look of her spectacles she always uses on
them occasions—why, it is enough to skair anybody to death. But in a moment or
so he sort o’ rousted up, and says he:

“If you think so much of female wimmen as you say you do, I should think you
would think about what the position of these plural wives would be if polygimy
were abolished. What would they be thought of? What would they be?”

Says I, in awful tones: “What be they now?”

“Wall,” says he, “if they should be divorced they wouldn’t be looked upon as
they are now.”

“No,” says I, “that is very true; they wouldn’t, not at all, not by me.”

Says he: “They would be looked down upon more.”

Says I, with dignity: “Stoppin’ sinnin’ hadn’t ort to make anybody thought less
on,” says I. “That hain’t accordin’ to my creed or my skripter.”

Says he: “If they was divorced their situation would be very painful and
humiliatin’.”

Says I, very dryly: “It is now, in my estimation.”

Says he: “Look at the position of the childern of these unions, that would be
left fatherless. What a sad scene it would be; helpless infancy made a mark for
contumely and sneers; babyhood blamed, scorned.”

Says I: “They wouldn’t be scorned, not by anybody whose scorn would be worth
havin’. Nobody but a fool or a luny is in the habit of blamin’ folks for doin’
what they can’t help doin’, and bein’ what they can’t help bein’. Blame the
childern! Why, good land!” says I, “I should jest as soon set out and scold a
mornin’-glory or a white violet for the looks of the ground they sprung from.
God’s own purity is writ in the clear eyes of babyhood, and in the blue heart of
them mornin’-glories. Blossoms of light, mornin’-glories, springin’, God knows
how or why, out of the black mould, out of darkness and decay. Who could look
scoffin’ly or irreverently on ’em, or on them other blossoms of innocence,
springin’ as mysteriously from as dark a soil, and touched by the hand of God
with as pure and divine a beauty.”

“Unpractical, unpractical female, led away as females ever are by sympathies and
views of right and wrong. Oh! thank Heaven! thank Heaven! such dangerous
qualities are not incorporated into politics. I should tremble for the nation if
it were so.”

And agin he looked fiercely at the stove-hearth. “Unpractical female, what would
become of the childern left, as it were, fatherless?”

Says I: “If the parents of the childern are rich enough, let ’em support ’em;
and the poor ones—I know a man who will adopt the hull lot, and be glad of the
chance,” says I proudly. “It is a uncle of mine, a uncle I am proud to own.
Samuel is his name, and nobility and generosity is his nater.” Says I: “Let
these childern and the wimmen, if necessary, be took care of by the government,
and let the evil end with this generation.”

“But what would the position of these wimmen be in society; what would they be?”

“What be they _now_?” says I agin. And I snapped out that “now” considerable
snappish, for I was gettin’ a good deal wore out with him. Says I: “You seem to
think it would be the death-blow to their reputation to stop sinnin’, stop
livin’ in wickedness; but there is where you and I differ. I should think as
much agin of ’em.”

And says I: “If a evil is a goin’ to stop, it has got to begin to stop sometime,
or else it won’t never get stopped. More of these unholy unions have taken place
durin’ the past year than ever before in the same length of time. Powerful
efforts are bein’ made to strengthen and extend the power of the system. And it
must either be stopped, or else go on widening and spreading, and destroying
this beautiful new world as it destroyed so many other strong, proud nations
that were glorious in the past.” Says I: “Can I set still and see it go on, and
can Josiah set still, and other female pardners, and other Josiahs, and not long
to lift a hand to turn back this flood of woe and desolation?”

Here Josiah groaned aloud. He had his thoughts there on that lounge, though he
lay middlin’ still. His thoughts goared him worse than that stitch did, ten
times over. And I felt sorry for him, my feelin’s for him are such; and I
brought his name in in a friendly way, just because my love for him was so
strong, and I forgive him so. Says I: “Elder Judas Wart, I won’t take you back
to the old Jewish nations, round by Italy, Spain, and other roundabout ways, as
I might do, and as some wimmen who are more talkative than I be probable would,
and show you all the way the ruins of the nations ruined by this crime of
polygimy. But I am a woman who says but little, but that little I mean, and I
will merely hold up Turkey before you. And while I am holdin’ up that Turkey, I
will merely mention the fact to you, that you and everybody else knows, and that
Turkey knows it well, and if it should speak up and own the truth it would say
that it was the effects of this system that made it so weak and impotent. Weaker
as a nation than our old turkey-gobbler; fur weaker than a hen-turkey. (I make
use of the gobbler as a poetical metafor, and would wish to be so understood.)
“Will not America and Josiahs heed these warnin’s?” says I, lookin’ right up at
the ceilin’, in a rapped way. “Will they not listen to the voice of doom that
rises from the ruins of other nations, glorious and proud and strong in the
past, that has crumbled into ashes from the effects of this sin? Will they not,”
I went on in a still more rapped, eloquent way, “will they not bend down their
ears and hear the wail of warnin’ that seems to float along over the dust of the
desert from old Babylon herself, warnin’ to this new, fresh, western world to
escape this enervatin’, destroyin’ sin, and escape her doom? Will not America
and Josiahs take warnin’ by the fate of these nations? or will they go on in
careless merriment and feastin’, unheedin’ those terrible words ‘_mean! mean!_’
writ up in the blue vault above, till it is too late; till the land is given to
the enimy; till weakness, ruin, and decay take the septer from Columbia’s
tremblin’, shakin’ grasp, and rain over this once strong, lovely land.”

I sithed, I almost wept—I was so fearfully agitated—and says I: “If this
threat’nin’ doom that threatens our beloved land is to be averted, if this evil
is to be stopped, when is there a better time than the present to stop it in,
now,” says I, wipin’ my eyes on my apron, “now, while America has got me to help
her?” And agin I sithed, and agin I almost shed tears, and wept. He see my
agitation, and took advantage of it. Says he: “You seem to be tender-hearted,
Josiah Allen’s wife, and to have a great affection for the female sect, and yet
you don’t seem to think of the hearts that would be wrung by the agony of
seperation. Why,” says he, “if they should part with their companions, they
would be unhappy.”

Says I, lookin’ out of the open window, fur away over the tree-tops, over the
blue lake beyond—and beyond—

My spectacles seemed to look very fur off. They had a very deep and sort o’
soarin’ look to ’em, somewhat happy, and somewhat sorrowful and solemn. And says
I:

“I don’t know as there has any law ever been made, in Heaven or on earth, that
we had got to be happy. There is a law made that we should do right, should not
do evil, but not that we must be happy. Why, some paths we have to foller lead
right away from happiness.” And says I, still lookin’ fur off, in that same sort
of a solemn, deep way:

“That path always leads to something better, more beautiful, more divine.”

“What can be better than happiness?” says he, in a enquirin’ way. “Blessedness!”
says I. “The two hain’t to be compared no more than a flower growin’ out of
earthly soil is to be compared to one springin’ up in the valleys of God. One is
lit with earth’s sun, and the other is shinin’ with Heaven’s own light. One is
mortal, the other immortal.”

Says he, still follerin’ up his old theme, still tryin’ to head me off in some
way:

“Wouldn’t you be sorry for these females, Josiah Allen’s wife?”

Says I firmly: “If they suffered from the wrenchin’ away of old ties, I should
be sorry for ’em to that extent that there wouldn’t be a sithe left in my
breast, nor a dry eye in my head. At the same time, if they made the sacrifice
willin’ly, from a sense of duty, for the ransom of their people, for the
deliverance of the land from peril, my very soul would kneel in reverence to
them, and they should be honored by all as those who come out of great
tribulations. “But,” says I, in a slower, more thoughtful way, “there is
different kinds of tribulations. And you can look at subjects with the
sentimental eye of your specks, and then agin you can turn the other eye onto
’em. And in lookin’ through that other eye at ’em, you might possibly see that
the married life of these plural wives is wretched—full of jealousies,
divisions, and sizms. “Woman’s love, when it has room to grow, is a tremendous
thing to spread itself. But (still lookin’ through that common sense eye of our
specks) we would say that the divine plant of love _can’t_ grow so thrifty in
one-twentieth part of a man’s heart as it could in a more expanded and roomy
place. We would say (still lookin’ through that eye) that it was too cramped a
spot—some like growin’ a oak in a bottle. You can make it sprout; but there
can’t be so deep roots nor so strong a strength to it, and it wouldn’t take nigh
so much of a pull to wrench it up by the roots. “And so, to foller up the
simely, as simelys ort to be follered, we would think that the first wife is the
one who would suffer most; she who thought she was marryin’ a hull man, who
dwelt for awhile in a hull heart, and whose affections, therefore, had naturally
took deep root, and spread themselves. We would say (still lookin’ through that
eye of the speck, and still follerin’ up simelys) that she is the one who would
be most wrung with agony.”

“Wall,” says Elder Judas Wart, seemin’ly ketchin’ holt of the first argument
that presented itself in front of his mind, for truly he didn’t seem to care how
crooked his argument was, nor how wobblin’. Says he:

“Sufferin’ is a divine agent to draw souls heavenward.”

“Yes, heaven-sent sufferin’,” says I, “will draw our hearts up nearer to the
heavenly home it come from. But when sufferin’ comes up from below, from another
place, scented with brimstone, and loaded with iniquity, it will do its best to
draw us down to it where it come from.”

“Pain sometimes teaches divine lessons,” says Elder Judas Wart. And I never see
a mouth puckered and twisted down into a more hypocritical pucker than hisen
was. Says I: “Don’t you s’pose I know that?” And then I went on awful eloquent,
and grew eloquenter and eloquenter all the time for as much as five minutes or
more, entirely unbeknown to me, not thinkin’ who was there, or who I was a
talkin’ to, or where, or when:

“Don’t I know,” says I, “that no soul has reached its full might, no soul has
ever really lived, till it has learned to bless God for the divine ministry of
sorrow? Don’t I certainly know that of all God’s angels the one who brings us
divinest gifts is the blessed angel of Pain?”

And I went on again, in that fearfully eloquent way of mine, when I get entirely
rousted up in eloquence, and know not where I am, or who is hearin’ of me, or
why, or which:

“If we bar this angel from our door, resist her gentle voice pleadin’ at our
heart, woe be to us; for she can come as a avenger, a destroyer. But if we greet
her as indeed a heavenly visitant, believe that God sent her, hold her in our
weak arms close to our hearts, she gives us divinest strength. “Though we turn
away, and fear her greeting, we find that the touch of her lips on our burning
brow leaves calm. She lays on our throbbing, aching hearts soft hands of peace.
Her eyes have a sorry look for us, that make our tears flow, and then we see
that those sad, sweet eyes are looking up from earth to where our own, tear-
blinded, are fain to follow—up beyond the vail, into that beautiful city where
our treasures and our hopes are. [Illustration: AN ANGEL OF PEACE.] To no other
angel has God given the power to so reveal to us the glory and the mystery of
life and of death. No other hand but hers has such power to unlock the very
doors of heaven and send down into our hearts heaven’s peace and glory. Don’t I
know this? don’t I know that in the hour of our bitterest sorrow, our deepest
affliction, when the one that made our world lies silent before us, deaf for the
first time to our tears and our sorrow; when all the world looks black and
desolate, and hatred and envy and malice seem to surround us, and our human
strength is gone, and human help is vain; don’t I know that this divine angel of
Pain opens the very doors of Heaven, and lets down a perfect flood of glory into
our soul—not happiness, but blessedness. “Yes, the crosses this angel brings us
from a lovin’ Father we will bear in God’s name. But,” says I, firmly, “other
folks must do as they are a mind to; but I never will, not if I know it, bend my
back, and let old Belzebub lay one of his crosses acrost my shoulder-blades. No,
I will throw off that cross, and stamp onto it. And this cross of Mormonism is
one of hisen, if he ever had one. It is made out of Belzebub’s own timber,
nailed together by man’s selfishness and brutality and cruelty, the very worst
part of his nature. It is one of the very heaviest crosses ever tackled by
wimmen, and bore along by ’em, wet with their blood and sweat and tears. And
Samantha will do her best to stamp onto ’em, every one of ’em, and break ’em up
into kindlin’-wood, and build fires with ’em to burn up this putryfyin’ crime of
polygimy, root and branch; make a cleansin’ blaze of it to try to purify God’s
sweet air it has defiled.”

“Oh!” says Elder Judas Wart, with a low deep groan, “oh! how unpractical females
always are. Females are carried away by their sympathies and religious feelings
and sense of right and duty, making them a most dangerous element in politics, a
very striking and unwholesome contrast to the present admirable system of
government, if they were ever incorporated into the body politic; in short, if
they ever vote. Let us look on the subject in a practical light.”

And I was so beat out by my eloquent emotions (such emotions are beautiful to
have by you, but fatiguin’ to handle, as I handle ’em, and I can’t deny it); and
bein’ also almost completely out of wind, I sot still, and let him go on. And he
talked, I should judge, well on to a quarter of a hour about Communism,
Socialism, its principles, its rise, and progress; and I let him go on, and
didn’t hardly say a word, only I would merely throw in little observations
occasionally, such as, when he argued that everybody should own the same amount
of property, and there should be no rich and no poor. I merely threw in this
question to him: Whether he thought shiftlessness and laziness should have the
same reward as industry and frugality? And when he was a goin’ on about
everybody bein’ educated the same so one could not be intellectually superior to
the other, I simply asked him whether he thought Nature was a Socialist. Says
he: “Why?”

“Oh!” says I, “I was a thinkin’ if she was one, she didn’t live up to her
belief. She didn’t equalize brains and thrift and economy.”

“Wall, as I was a sayin’” says he, “as it were, you know”—

“No,” says I, coldly, “I don’t know it, nor I never did. I know,” says I,
lookin’ keen at him, “that some are born almost fools, and keep on so; and
some,” says I, with a sort of modest, becomin’ look, “some are very smart.”

He kep’ perfectly still for a minute, or mebby a minute and a ½. he seemed to
collect his strength agin, and broke out, in a loud, haughty tone:

“The fault of our old civilization is that property is controlled by the few.
How can a man have the same love for his home, for his hearth-stone, if he works
the land of some great landed proprietor? In case of war, now, foreign invasion,
if each man owned property of his own, if each man was a Mormon, in fact, he
would be fighting for his own interest; not for the interest of some great
landed lord. He would be fightin’ for his own hearth-stone; the sacred and holy
hearth-stone.”

Says I, in reasonable axents: “I hain’t a word to aginst the sacredness of the
hearth-stun. I hain’t a word to say aginst the stun. But wouldn’t it be apt to
take off a little of the sacredness of the stun to have thirty or forty wimmen a
settin’ on it; each claimin’ it as her own stun? Wouldn’t it have to be a pretty
large stun, and a pretty firm one, to stand the gusts and whirlwinds of temper
that would be raised round it? And to tell the plain truth, Elder Judas Wart,
don’t you believe that every man that owned such a stun, and 30 or 40 wimmen a
settin’ on it, and childern accordin’ly, don’t you believe that such a man
instead of discouragin’ war would do all in his power to welcome and encourage
it, so he could go forth into the battle-field, and find a little peace and
repose; that is, if he was a gentle, amiable man, who loved quiet?”

He never said one word in answer to this deep argument, he see it was too deep
and sound for him to grapple with; but he kep’ right on, and says, thinkin’
mebby it would skair me, says he:

“Our order was founded by Thalos of Chalcedon.”

“Wall,” says I, “Mr. Thalos is a man that I hain’t no acquaintance with,—I, nor
Josiah; so I can’t form any opinion what sort of a character he has got, or what
for a man he would be to neighbor with.”

Says he, in a still prouder and haughtier way: “Plato believed in it.”

“How do you know?” says I. “He never told me that he did. If he had, I should
have argued sound with him.” And says I, lookin’ keen and searchin’ at him:

“Did he tell you that he believed in it?” says I. “You can hear most anything.”

“Why, no,” says he, “he didn’t tell me. He died twenty-two hundred years ago.”

“Wall,” says I, coolly, “I thought you got it by hearsay. I didn’t believe you
got it from the old gentleman himself, or from any of his relations. I remember
Mr. Plato myself, now. I have heard Thomas J. read about him frequent. A sort of
a schoolmaster, I believe—a man that travelled a good deal—and had considerable
of a noble mean. If I remember right, I have seen him myself on a bust. But as I
was a sayin’, s’posen Mr. Plato did believe in it. Don’t you s’pose that old
gentleman had his faults? He was a nice old man, and very smart. His writings
are truly beautiful and inspirin’. “Why some of his dialogues are almost as keen
and sensible and flowery as them that have taken place between a certain woman
that I won’t mention the name of, and her pardner Josiah. Why, jest the fact
that he got sold once for talkin’ so plain in the cause of Right, endeared him
to me. And the fact that he didn’t fetch only twenty minnys (and we all know
what small fish they be) didn’t make him seem any the less valuable to me. No,
not at all so; it wouldn’t, if he hadn’t fetched more than one little chub.
“Them views of his’en, them witherin’ idees aginst tyrany that he was preachin’
to a tyrent, whales couldn’t lug, nor sharks. They was too big and hefty to be
bought or sold. But because Mr. Plato was all right in some things, we mustn’t
think he was in all. We are apt to think so, and we are apt to think that that
because a gulf of a thousand or two years lay between us and a certain person,
that it seperates them from all our mortal errors and simplicities. “But it
hain’t so. That old man had other human weaknesses besides writin’ poetry. I
persume Miss Plato had to deal real severe with him lots of times, jest as I do
with Josiah. I dare persume to say she had hard work to get along with him
more’n half the time. And if he believed in Mormonism, he believed in sunthin’
wicked and abominable, and if I had been on intimate terms with him and her, I
should have talked to him like a sister, right before her, so she would feel all
right about it, and not get oneasy and jealous. I should have talked powerful to
him, and if he is the man I take him to be, I could have convinced him in ten
minutes, I know I could.”

[Illustration: Mr. and Mrs. Plato.] “Wall,” says he, “bringin’ the history of
our church down to Christ’s day: He was a believer in it.”

I riz right up in a awful dignity and power, and I says, in a tone that was
fearful to hear, it was so burnin’ indignant:

“You say that agin in my house, if you dare.”

He dassent, my tone was such. He never said a word, but sot kinder scroochin’
and meachin’ on his chair, and I went on, resumin’ my seat agin, knowin’ as I
did that my principles was so hefty I had better save myself all the extra
weariness that I could. Says I:

“You dare to say that He, the Deliverer of His people from sin and evil—He, the
Teacher of all purity, morality, honesty, and all Christian virtues, who came
bringin’ peace on earth, good will to men—He, who taught that a man should have
one wife, and be tender and constant to her, even as He loved the Church and
gave Himself for it—He, whose life was so pure and self-denyin’ and holy that it
brought the divine down to the comprehension of the human—the love and purity of
God manifest in the flesh—how dare you tell me that He was a Mormon?”

He dassent say it agin. He dast as well die as to say it. I s’pose, in fact I
know, from my feelin’s which I was a feelin’, that my mean was awfuler and more
majesticker than it had been for years and years. Says he, “As it were—” and
then he stopped short off, seemin’ly to collect his thoughts together, and then
he kinder coughed, and begun agin— “And so forth, and so on,” says he. He acted
fairly afraid. And I don’t wonder at it a mite. My looks must have been awful,
and witherin’ in the extreme. But finally he says, “We read of this sect in the
Bible, anyway. The Essenes was Mormons, or sort o’ Mormony,” says he, glancin’
at me and then at the teakettle, in a sort of a fearful way. But says I, coldly,
“We read in the Bible of droves of swine that was full of evil spirits; and we
read in it of lunaticks, and barren fig-trees, and Judas, and the—the
David—callin’ him David, as a Methodist and member of the meetin’-house, who
does not want to say Satan if she can possibly help it. “Now,” says I, “you have
brought up every commandment of God, and I have preached on ’em, and you find
every one of ’em is aginst you—the old law, and the divine new law made manifest
in Christ. Now,” says I, coolly, leanin’ back in my chair, full of martyrdom and
eloquence and victory and everything, “bring on your next argument, bring it
right here, and let me lay holt of it, and vanquish it, and overthrow it”

“Wall,” says he, “I hold that the perfect faith that thousands have in our
religion and its founder, is one of the very strongest proofs of its divine
origin.”

“I don’t think so,” says I. “Faith is the substance of things hoped for, but
things don’t always turn out to be what you hoped they was. Now, there is hash,
for instance: and in order to enjoy hash, you have got to have perfect
confidence in it and its maker. But still you may have that perfect confidence
in it, and eat it in faith, believin’ it is good beef and pork, while at the
same time there may be ingredients in it that you know not of, such as Skotch
snuff, lily white, hairpins, and etcetery. Hash is a great mystery, and often
deceivin’ to the partaker, no matter how strong his faith in it may be. “And I
might foller up this strikin’ simely of hash into other eloquent metafors, such
as pills, preachin’, wimmen’s complexion, and etcetery. Some is good and true,
and some hain’t good and true, but they all find somebody to believe in ’em.
“This is a very deep subject, and solemn, if handled solemnly. I have handled it
only in a light parable way, showin’ that them that do honestly believe in this
Mormon doctrine, if there are any, are partakin’ (unbeknown to them) of a hash
that is full of abomination and uncleanness, full of humiliation, sorrow, and
degradation. Oh!” says I, fallin’ back on the side of the subject nearest to my
heart, “when I think of the woes of my sect there in Utah, I feel feelin’s that
never can be told or sung. No, there never could be a tune made mournful and
solemn enough to sing ’em in.”

Says he, bold as brass, and not thinkin’ how he was a wobblin’ round in his
argument, “They enjoy it.”

Says I, firm as Bunker Hill, and as lofty, “They don’t enjoy it.”

Says he, “They do.”

Says I, “Elder Judas Wart, you tell me that agin, and I’ll know the reason why.”

“Why,” says he, “they have petitioned Congress to not meddle with the laws.”

Says I, “Can you tell me, Elder Judas Wart, can you tell me honestly that there
wasn’t man’s influence lookin’ right out of that petition?”

“No, mum, there wuzn’t. They done it of their own wills and acords.”

Says I, firmly, “I don’t believe it. And if I did, it would only show to me the
blightin’, corruptin’, influence of your belief.”

“Why,” says he, “some of our wimmen are the most active in our church—full of
religious zeal.”

Says I, coolly, “All kinds of zeal hain’t religious zeal.” Says I, “The kind
that makes a mother throw her child into the Ganges, and burn herself with the
dead body of her husband—you can call it religious zeal, if you want to, but I
call it fanatical frenzy.”

Says he, “They are perfectly happy in their belief.”

[Illustration: THE HINDOO MOTHER.] Says I, “You needn’t never say that agin to
me, thinkin’ I will believe it, for before Mormonism was ever made, human nature
was made, wimmen’s hearts was made. And when you show me a man who would enjoy
havin’ his right hand cut off, or his eyes plucked out of his head, then I will
show you a woman, a womanly woman, who enjoys sharin’ the love of the man she
worships—enjoys seein’ it passin’ away from her, given to another. Why, it is
aginst nater, as much as it is for the sun to shine at midnight. Blackness and
despair and gloom is what rains when the sun of love is gone down—it’s nater,
and can’t be helped, no more than the sun can, or the moon, or anything. No
woman ever enjoyed this wretched doctrine—that is, no good woman, no pure,
tender-hearted, affectionate woman.”

“Why,” says he, “I s’posed you thought all wimmen was perfect.”

“No, I don’t, sir, no sir. A woman can lose all that is sweet and lovely in her
nature—all the traits that make her so attractive, her tenderness, her
affection, her constancy, her modesty, her purity. She can get very low down in
the scale of being, lower, I think, than a man can get. You know the further up
any one is, the worse it hurts ’em to fall. “Now the angels that fell down from
heaven, I s’pose it changed ’em, and disfigured ’em, and spilte ’em as bad agin
as it would to fall down suller. Josiah fell a week ago last Wednesday night,
with a hammer in one hand, and a box of nails in the other. He was fixin’ up a
cupboard for me in the sullerway. He fell flat down and lay his hull length on
the suller bottom. Skairt me awfully. Skairt him, too, and sort o’ madded him,
as it always will a man when they fall. I was gettin’ the supper onto the table,
and I started on the run for the suller door, and says I, in agitated axents,
and weak as a cat with my emotions:

“Did it hurt you, Josiah?”

Says he, sort o’ surly, “It didn’t do me any good.”

But he got up, and was all right the next day. I have used this poetical simely,
of its hurtin’ anybody worse to fall down from such a lofty height than to fall
down the sullerway, to show my meanin’ that a pure woman’s nature is naturally
very pure and lofty, and if she loses it she falls very low indeed.
[Illustration: A FALLEN ANGEL.] “Lose it she can—all that makes her sweet and
lovely and lovable; but while she keeps her woman’s heart and nature, her life,
in your religion, must be a constant martyrdom, and must be in its nature
demoralizin’ and debasin’, dealin’ the morals fearful and totterin’ blows. “Why,
don’t you s’pose I can take it to myself? Now, Home is the most heavenly word we
know. We hain’t learnt the heavenly alphabet yet, none of us, and so can’t spell
out the word Heaven as it ort to be spelt. We are children that hain’t learnt
God’s language yet. But Home in its true meanin’ is sunthin’ as near heaven as
we can translate and spell out below. Home, when it is built as any home must be
in order to stand, on a true love, and in the fear of God, such a home is almost
a heaven below. I know it, for a certain home was built on these very
foundations upwards of 20 years ago, and not a j’int has moved, not a sleeper
decayed. Such a home means delight, rest, comfort. I know it, and my Josiah
knows it. “But let Josiah Allen bring home one more wife, let alone a dozen or
fifteen of ’em—let him bring home one small wife besides Samantha, and I should
find that home meant sunthin’ very different from peace and rest and happiness.
And Josiah Allen would find out that it did, too. He would, if I know my own
heart, and am not deceived in myself. And when I think of it, think of what my
own sect are a sufferin’ right here in our own land, it makes my blood bile up
in my vains, and the tears jest start to every eye in my head, and if I had two
dozen eyes I could cry and weep with every one of ’em, a thinkin’ how I should
feel under them circumstances—a thinkin’ of the desecration of all that is
holiest, and purest, and most blessed. Thinkin’ of the agony of remembrance, and
regret, and despair that would sweep over me—remembrance of the old, happy days
when I was blest with the love that had gone from me—regret for all the happy
days, happy words of love and tenderness, happy hours of confidence and
affection—mine once, gone forever. Despair, utter, black despair that all was
past. “And besides this sufferin’, think of the ravages it would make in my
morals, as well as his’en. I know jest how much my morals can stand, I know to a
inch jest how much strain I can put onto ’em. And I know, jest as well as I know
my name was once Smith, that another wife would make ’em totter. And, to be
perfectly plain and truthful, I know that wife would make ’em fall perfectly
flat down, and break ’em all into pieces, and ruin ’em. I shouldn’t have a
single moral left sound and hull, and I know it. I should be ugly.”

Says I, with a added eloquence and bitterness of tone, as my mind roved back
onto a certain widder:

“To have another woman come a snoopin’ into my house and my pardner’s heart—why,
language hain’t made mean enough to tell what my meanness would be under the
circumstances. And her morals, too—why, don’t you s’pose her morals would be
flat as a pancake? Yea, verily. And where would my Josiah’s morals be? He
wouldn’t have none, not a moral, nor a vestige of any. And there would be three
likely persons spilte, entirely, and eternally spilte. And do you s’pose we
three persons are so different from any other three persons? No, human nature
(man human nature, and woman human nature) is considerable the same all over the
world.”

And agin as that fearful scene presented itself to my imagination, of another
woman enterin’ into my Josiah’s heart, I sithed powerful, and went on with
renewed eloquence. I was fearfully eloquent, and smart as I could be; deep. Says
I, “One man’s heart hain’t of much account, viewed in a permiscus way, but to
the woman that loves him it’s a good deal, it is all. Wimmen are foolish about
some things, and this is one of ’em. Her love is to her the very breath she
breathes—it is the best part of her. Men don’t feel this way as a general thing
(my Josiah duz, but he is a shinin’ exception). But as a general thing love is
to them a sort of a side-show, a tolerable good entertainment, but it hain’t the
hull circus. “No, a man’s heart hain’t none too large for one woman to dwell in,
especially if she is hefty, not at all too large, quite the reverse. And I can
tell you, Elder Judas Wart, and tell it firm and solemn, that when it comes to
dividin’ up that heart that was a tight fit in the first place, and lettin’ one
woman after another come a troopin’ in, a pushin’ the lawful owner out of the
way, jammin’ her round, bruisin’ of her, and in the end crowdin’ her completely
out in the cold, I say, may God pity such a woman, for human pity can’t be made
pitiful enough to reach her.”

Says Elder Judas Wart, “Men that hain’t Mormons sometimes has more than one
woman inside of their hearts.”

“I know it,” says I. “But the law gets right onto such a man and stamps onto
him. And public sentiment sets down on him hard. And I can tell you that when
the hull community and law and religion and everything are all a settin’ on a
man, and settin’ heavy, that man finds it is a pretty tuckerin’ business; he
gets sick of it, and is glad to do better and be let up. But you make the
iniquity lawful. You make law and religion and public sentiment all get under
such a man, and boost him up—make out that the more crimes a man commits, the
more wives he has, the higher place he will have in heaven. Why,” says I, “when
I think it over, it hain’t no wonder to me that the Mormon leaders, before they
let loose this shameful doctrine and putrifyin’ sin of polygamy, they settled
down by a salt lake. I should have thought they would have needed salt. But salt
never was made salt enough to save ’em, and they’ll find out so.”

He quailed a very little, or, that is, it looked like quail, though it might
have been meachin’ness strong and severe. Powerful meach looks some like quail,
at a first look. But he recovered himself in half a moment, and went on, in the
haughtiest, impudentest tone he had used as yet:

“Wall, whether salt has helped us, or whatever did, we have flourished—nobody
can deny that. We have made the desert blossom like a rose. We are industrious,
stiddy, prudent, equinomical, hard-working. You can’t deny the good we have done
in that way. We are full of good qualities, brim full of ’em.”

Says I, coldly, almost frigidly, “No amount of white-wash can cover up a whited
sepulker so that my specks can’t see through it, and see the sepulker. Good
store clothes can’t cover up a bad soul worth a cent. A blue satin vest, or even
a pink velvet one, buttoned up over a bad heart, can’t make that heart none the
purer. The vest might look well, and probable would. But when you know the bad
heart beats under it, vile and wicked beats, why, that vest don’t seem no better
to you, nor seem to set the man off no more, than if it was calico, with leather
buttons. Material good can never make up for moral degradation. “And your good
qualities only make your sinful practices more dangerous, more successful in
luring souls to destruction. It is like wreathin’ a sword with flowers, for
folks to grip holt of and get their hands cut off (morally). It is like coverin’
a bottomless gulf with blossoming boughs, for folks to walk off on, and break
their necks (as it were).”

“Wall,” says he proudly, “we have flourished, and are flourishin’ and are goin’
to still more. We are goin’ to extend our doctrine of polygamy further and
further. We are goin’ to carry it into Arizona and all the other new
territories—”

I riz right up, I was so agitated, and says I: “You shan’t carry it, not one
step.”

Says he, firmly: “We will!”

Says I: “I tell you agin that you shan’t; and if you do I’ll know the reason
why. I tell you that you shall drop it right there, by that salt lake, and let
it lay there. It needs brine if anything ever did. You shan’t make no move to
carry it a step further. You shall not carry this godless crime, a disgrace to
religion and civilization, into new territories. The green turf of them lands is
too fresh and bright to be blood-stained by the feet of weepin’ wimmen, bearin’
this heaviest of crosses that was ever tackled by ’em. You shall not darken the
sunny skies and pollute the sweet air of new lands with this moral pestilence.”

Says he: “We will!”

Says I, firmly and sternly: “You won’t; and when I say you won’t, I mean it.”

“Wall,” says he, with a proud mean, “how are you goin’ to help yourself?”

Says I, in loud, excited axents: “If I can’t stop you myself, I know who can,
and I will go to Uncle Sam myself. I’ll have a plain talk with that good old
man. I’ll jest put it into his head what you are a tryin’ to do, and I’ll hunch
him up, and make him stop you.”

Says he: “Don’t you s’pose sin and sorrow will ever be carried into the
territories only as they are carried in by Mormons?”

[Illustration: THE OLD MAN.] “Yes, I do,” says I. “I s’pose that whenever
humanity is sot down under the light of the Eternal, it will forevermore, as it
has forever in the past, be followed by two shadows, the joyful and the
sorrowful. Human nature can’t help itself; the Eternal Soul above will shine on,
and the human nature below will throw its shadows—the dark one and the light
one, first one and then the other, unbeknown to us, followin’ us all the time,
and will follow us till the darkness of the human is all lost in the light of
the divine. There hain’t no territories been discovered distant enough for the
human soul to escape from itself—from the shadow of sorrow. I hain’t said there
wuz. Neither have I said it could escape from sin. I s’pose the old man in human
nature won’t never be wholly drove out of it this side of Eternity; and I s’pose
wherever that old man is there will be caperin’ and cuttin’ up and actin’. But,
as I have said more’n forty times, you ort to whip that old man, make him behave
himself as well as you possibly can, be awful severe with him, and keep him
under. But you don’t try to. You jest pet that old man, and humor him, and
encourage him in his caperin’s. You try to make sin and cuttin’ up and actin’
respectable; protect it by the law. “Why, sin is what all good men and wimmen
must fight aginst; educate public sentiment aginst it; make it obnoxious; or
what will become of everybody and the world if they don’t? Why, they will be
ondone, they and the hull world, if they don’t. I will,” says I firmly, “I will
see Uncle Sam about it at once.”

“Oh,” says he, in a impudent, pert tone, “Uncle Sam won’t do nothin’ to hinder
us. He has always protected us. He has done well by us. He has let us do about
as we was a mind to.”

“I know it,” says I, “but I’ll tell you,” says I, ontyin’ my apron-strings in a
absent-minded sort of a mechanicle way, and then tyin’ ’em up agin in the same
way (or about the same), “I’ll tell you what,” says I, for I was fairly
determined to find some excuse for Samuel, if I possibly could, “the fact is,
that old man hain’t been well for quite a number of years. He has seemed to be
sort o’ runnin’ down; his constitution hain’t seemed right to me. And he has had
miserable doctors; or that is, he has got help in some directions, good help,
and in others he has had the poorest kind of physic. But,” says I, firmly, “that
old man means well; there hain’t a well-meanin’er, conscientiouser old creeter
on the face of the earth than that old man is.”

“Yes,” says he, “he has done well by us. We hain’t no fault to find with him.”

Oh! how that madded me. But I was determined to find all the excuses for Samuel
that I could (though I was at my wit’s end, or pretty nigh there, to find ’em,
and I can’t deny it). Says I,

[Illustration: THE CALL TO DUTY.] “That old man has been more than half crazy
for a number of years back. What with fightin’ and bloodshed right in his own
family, amongst his own childern—and the injins screechin’ and warhoopin’ round
his frontiers, and the Chinamen a cuttin’ up behind his back, and his neighbors
a fightin’ amongst themselves, and jabbin’ at him every chance they got; and
congressmen and everybody a stealin’ everything they could, right under his
nose, and cuttin’ up and actin’. It is a wonder to me that the old man hain’t
gin up long ago, and died off. I guess lots of folks thought, a number of years
ago, that he wouldn’t live a year. And it wasn’t nothin’ but his goodness and
solid principles that kep’ him up, and everybody knows it. He’s had enough to
bear to kill a ox.”

“We ort to speak well of him,” says he agin. “He has done first-rate by us. He
has seemed to like us.”

“Shet up!” says I. “I won’t hear another word from you aginst that old man. Your
doin’s has worried Samuel almost to death—I know it has. I wouldn’t be afraid to
bet (if I believed in bettin’) that it has wore on him more than all the work he
has done for years. “He wants to do right, that old Uncle does. He would be jest
as glad to get rid of all of you,—Mormons, Oneida Communities, Free Lovers, and
the hull caboodle of you,—as our old mare would be glad to get rid of flies in
fly-time. But the thing of it is, with Samuel and the mare, how to go to work to
do it. He can’t see to everything without help. I know what he needs. He needs a
good, strong friend to help him. He wants to have somebody tell him the plain
truth, to get his dander completely up; and then he wants to have that same
female stand right by him, with a cast-iron determination, and hand him bullets
and cartridges, while he aims his old revolutionary musket, and shoots down
iniquities on every side of him. “Why, where would Josiah Allen be, if it wuzn’t
for me? He would come to nothin’, morals and all, if it wuzn’t for me to hunch
him up. And Samuel has as much agin to worry him as Josiah has. “Why, there is
no tellin’ how many things that old man has to plague him and torment the very
life out of him. Little things, too, some of ’em, but how uncommon little things
will worry anybody, ’specially in the night. Curious things, too, some of ’em,
that has worried me most to death way off here in Jonesville, and what feelin’s
I should have felt to have had it a goin’ on right under my nose, as Samuel did.
“Now, when they made that new silver dollar, right there in his house I s’pose
they done it, or in his wood-shed or barn—anyway, it was right where he could
see it a goin’ on, and worry over it—you know they put onto it, ‘In God we
trust.’ And it has fairly hanted me to find out what the government really meant
by it—whether they meant that God wouldn’t let ’em get found out in their
cheatin’ seven cents on every dollar, or trusted He would let ’em cheat fourteen
cents on the next ones they made. [Illustration: THE CALL TO DUTY.] “Why, it has
worried me awfully, and how Samuel must have felt about it. And that is only one
little thing. “There is the trade dollars we made on purpose to cheat China
with, and sent over in the same ship we sent missionaries to convert ’em. I
persume to say that old man has laid awake nights a worryin’ over what the
heathens would think about it—about our sendin’ religion and robbery over to ’em
in the same ship—about our sendin’ religious tracts, exhortin’ ’em to be honest,
or they would certainly go to that bad place which I do not, as a Methodist,
wish to speak of, and send these dollars to cheat ’em with in the same
box—sendin’ eloquent and heartrendin’ tracts provin’ out to ’em that no drunkard
can possibly go to Heaven, packed side by side with barrels of whiskey to teach
’em how to get drunk, so they will be sure not to go there. I know it has wore
on him, so afraid that the heathens would be perfectly disgusted with a religion
taught by professed followers of Him who come down to earth bearing peace, good-
will to men, and then, after 1800 years of professed loyalty to Him, and His
pure and exalted teachings, bore to their shores such fruit as cheating,
falsehood, and drunkenness. [Illustration: HELPS FOR THE HEATHEN.] “It has
hanted Samuel, I know it has. Hantin’ me as it has, it must have hanted him fur
worse. He has had severe trials, that old gentleman has, and he has needed
somebody to hunch him up, and lock arms with him, and draw him along on the path
of Right. And I tell you when I talk with him I shan’t spare no pains with him.
I shall use my eloquent tone freely. I shan’t be savin’ of gestures or wind. I
shall use sharp reason, and, if necessary, irony and sarcasm. And I shall ask
him (usin’ a ironicle tone, if necessary) how he thinks it looks in the eyes of
the other nations to see him, who ort to be a model for ’em all to foller, allow
such iniquity as Mormonism to flourish in his borders. To let a regular
organized band of banditty murder and plunder and commit all sorts of
abominations right under his honest old nose. And how it must look to them
foreign nations to see such a good, moral old gentleman as he is lift his
venerable old eyewinker and wink at such crime and sin. How insignificant and
humiliatin’ it must look to ’em to see him allow a man in Congress to make laws
that will imprison a man for havin’ two wives when the same man has got four of
’em, and is lookin’ round hungry for more. “And I shall hunch him up sharp about
sellin’ licenses to do wrong for money—licenses to make drunkards, and unfit men
for earth or heaven—licenses to commit other crimes that are worse—sellin’
indulgences to sin as truly as ever Mr. Pope did. “I don’t s’pose, in fact, I
know, that Sam hain’t never thought it over, and took a solemn, realizin’ sense
of how bad he was a cuttin’ up (entirely unbeknown to him). And, if necessary,
to convince him and make him see his situation, I shall poke fun at him (in a
jokin’ way, so’s not to get him mad). And I shall ask him if he thinks it is any
nobler for him to set up in his high chair at Washington and sell indulgences to
sin, than it was in Mr. Pope to set up in his high chair in Vatican village and
sell ’em. “And I shall skare him mebby, that is, if I have to, and ask him in a
impressive, skareful tone that if he can’t be broke in any other way, if he
don’t think he ort to be brought down to a diet of Worms. “It will go aginst my
feelin’s to skare the excellent old gentleman. But I shall feel it to be my duty
to not spare no pains. But at the same time I shall be very clever to him. I
shall resk it. I don’t believe he will get mad at me. He knows my feelin’s for
him too well. He knows there hain’t a old man on the face of the earth I love so
devotedly, now father Smith is dead, and father Allen, and all the other old
male relatives on my side, and on his’en. I’ll bet a cent I can convince him
where he is in the wrong on’t.”

Here I paused for a moment for wind, for truly I was almost completely
exhausted. But I was so full and runnin’ over with emotions that I couldn’t
stop, wind or no wind. And I went on:

“He hain’t realized, and he won’t, till I go right there and hunch him up about
it, how it looks for him to talk eloquent about the sanctity of home. How the
household, the Christian home, is the safeguard, the anchor of church and state,
and then make his words seem emptier and hollower than a drum, or a hogsit, by
allowin’ this sin of Mormonism to undermind and beat down the walls of home.”

And then (this theme always did make me talk beautiful), as I thought of home
and Josiah, and the fearful dangers that had threatened ’em both, why, as I
thought of this, I begun to feel eloquenter far than I had felt durin’ the hull
interview, and I don’t know as the feelin’s I felt then had been gone ahead of
by me in five years. Why, I branched out perfectly beautiful, and very deep, and
says I:

“Home! The Christian home! The mightiest power on earth for good. Each home
seperate and perfect in itself, like the little crystal drops of water, each one
on ’em round and complete and all floatin’ on together, unbeknown to them,
makin’ a mighty ocian floatin’ right into that serene bay into which all our
hopes and life dreams empty. That soundless sea that floats human souls right up
to the eternal city. “The love of parents, wives, and children, like golden
rings, bindin’ the hearts to the happy hearth-stone, and then widenin’ out in
other golden rings, bindin’ them hearth-stones to loyalty and patriotism, love
of country, love of law and order, and love of Heaven, why, them gold rings
within rings, they all make a chain that can’t be broke down; they twist all
together into a rope that binds this crazy old world to the throne of God.
“And,” says I, lookin’ at Elder Judas Wart, with a arrow in each eye (as it
were): “This most wholesome restraint, this strongest of ropes that is stretched
firm and solid between safety and old Error, you are tryin’ to break down. But
you’ll find you can’t do it. No sir! You may all get onto it,—the whole caboodle
of you, Mormons, Oneida Communities, Free Lovers, the hull set on you,—and
you’ll find it is a rope you can’t break! You’ll find that the most you can do
is to teter and swing on it, and stretch it out a little ways, mebby. You can’t
break it! No sir! Uncle Samuel (after I have hunched him up) will hold one end
of it firm and strong, and Principle and Public Sentiment the other end of it;
and if necessary, if danger is at hand, she that was Samantha Smith will lay
holt of it, too; and I’d love to see any shacks, or set of shacks, a gettin’ it
out of our hands then.”

Oh, how eloquent I had been. But he wuzn’t convinced. I don’t s’pose anybody
would hardly believe that a man could listen to such talk, and not be proselyted
and converted. But he wuzn’t. After all my outlay and expenditure of eloquence
and wind and everything, he wuzn’t convinced a mite. And after he had got his
hat all on to go, he jest stood there in front of me, with his hands in his
pockets, and says he, bold as brass, and as impudent as brass ever was:

“I am a goin’, mum, and I don’t never expect to see you agin. I never shall see
you in the kingdom.”

“I am afraid you won’t,” says I, givin’ him a awful keen look, but pityin’. “I
am afraid if you don’t turn right square round, and stop actin’, you won’t be
there.”

“I shall be there,” says he, “but you won’t.”

Says I, “How do you know I won’t?”

Says he, “Because I do know it.”

Says I, with dignity, “You don’t know it.”

“Why,” says he, comin’ out plain with his biggest and heftiest argument, the
main pillow in the Mormon church, “a woman can’t be saved unless some man saves
’em, some Mormon. That is one reason,” says he, “why I would have bore my cross,
and married you; obtained an entrance for you in the heavenly kingdom. But now
it is too late. I won’t save you.”

[Illustration: JOSIAH ENDS THE ARGUMENT.] “You won’t save me?” says I, lookin’
keen at him, as he stood there before me, with his red bloated face, a face that
had that low, disipated, animal expression lookin’ out so plain under the
sanctimonious, hypocritical look he had tried to cover it with. “You won’t save
me! Won’t take me into the heavenly kingdom! Wall, I rather think you won’t.”

I was so engaged and bound up in my indignant emotions and principles and
everything that I didn’t see what was goin’ on behind me. But there was a
fearful scene ensuin’ and goin’ on there. A awful scene of vengeance and just
retribution. For my faithful pardner, maddened by the terrible insult to his
Samantha, jest lifted himself up on one elbo, his righteous anger liftin’ him up
for the moment above stitches and all other earthly infirmities, and he threw
that broom-handle at Elder Judas Wart with terrific force, and aimed it so
perfect that it hit him right on the nap of the neck. It was a fearful blow. I
s’pose it come jest as near breakin’ his neck as anything ever did and miss. And
it skairt him fearfully, too; for Josiah had been so still for a spell that he
thought he was asleep. And it had come onto him as swift and severe as a
judgment right out of the heavens. (Not that I would wish to be understood that
broom-handles are judgments, and should be handled as such; not as a general
thing. I am speakin’ in a poetical way, and would wish to be took poetically.)
But oh! how fearful Elder Judas Wart looked. It squshed him right down for a
minute where he ort to be squshed—right onto his knees. He couldn’t get up for a
number of minutes, bein’ stunted and wild with the blow and the fearful horrow
of his skare. And oh! how Josiah Allen did converse with him, as he knelt there
helpless before him; hollered! it wasn’t conversation, it was hollerin’; loud,
wild holler! almost a beller! He ordered him out of the house, and threatened
him with instant and immediate execution on the galluses. Though he knew we
hadn’t no gallus built, and no timber suitable to build one; and he disabled
with a stitch, and nobody but me to do anything. But he vowed, in that loud,
skareful axent, that he would hang him in five minutes’ time; and chop his head
off with a broad-axe; and gulotine him; and saw his neck off with our old cross-
cut saw; and shoot him down like a dog; and burn him to the stake; and scalp
him. Why, Josiah ort to have known that one of these punishments was enough for
any man to bear, and more than any man could stand up under. And he knew we
hadn’t the conveniences by us for half of these punishments. But he didn’t think
of that. He didn’t think of nothin’, nor nobody, only jest anger and vengeance.
He was more delerious and wild in his conversation and mean than I had ever
known him to be during our entire aquaintenship. It was a fearful scene. It was
harrowin’ to me to see it go on. And Elder Judas Wart, as quick as he could get
up,—started off on a quick run, almost a canter. I s’pose, I have heerd sense,
and then I could see from his looks and actions, that a skairter man never
lived. And well he might be. I don’t blame him for it a mite. I blame him for
lots of things, but not for that; for the words and mean of Josiah was enough to
apaul a iron man, or a mule. [Illustration: DEPARTURE OF THE ELDER.] But as I
told Josiah afterwards, after the crazy delerium begun to disperse off of his
mean, says I, “Why is it any more of a insult to me than it is to them other
poor wimmen who have to endure it?” Says I, “You feel awfully to have that
doctrine jest throwed at your pardner, as you may say. And look at the thousands
of wimmen that have to submit to the humiliation and degredation of this belief,
live in it, and die in it.”

“Wall,” says he, chucklin’, “I jest choked old Wart off of it pretty sudden. I
brought him down onto his knees pretty suple. He won’t talk about savin’
wimmen’s souls agin right away. He won’t till his neck gets well, anyway.” And
he chuckled agin. I don’t believe in fightin’, and am the last woman to
encourage it; but I could not help sayin’, in fervid axents:

“Oh! if Uncle Samuel, that dear, blunderin’, noble old man, would only hit old
Polygamy jest another such a blow, jest as sudden and unexpected, and bring him
down on his polluted old knees in front of the nation. Oh! what a day that would
be for America and Samantha. What feelin’s we should feel, both on us.”

“Yes,” says Josiah, “I wish it could be did.” In the case of Josiah Allen my
powerful talk (aided by previous and more late occurrences) had fell on good
ground, I knew. The seed was springin’ up strong. I knew it was by the way he
threw that broom-handle, and I knew also by his looks and axents. He was
perfectly and entirely convinced of the awfulness and vile horrors of Mormonism.
I knew he was. He looked so good and sort o’ noble at me. And his tone was so
sweet and kind of affectin’, somehow, as he added, in gentle and plaintive
axents:

“I believe, Samantha, I could relish a little briled steak and some mashed-up
potatoes.”

Says I, “So could I, and I will get dinner to once.” And I did. [Illustration]

A CRISIS WITH KELLUP. The very next day after I gin the Elder such a talkin to,
Cassandra and Nathan Spooner come to our house a visitin, or that is, Nathan
brought Cassandra up as far as there for a drive, in the mornin’, and I made ’em
come in and stay to dinner, Cassandra not bein’ very strong. They have got a
young babe, a boy, five weeks old that very day. Wall, while they was there,
while I was a gettin’ dinner, I had a letter from Kitty. Kitty had gone home two
weeks before, unexpected. A letter bein’ had by her from her mother, to that
effect. I never shall forget the day Kitty went. Never. Josiah had hitched up to
take her to say good bye to the children, and they hadn’t been gone more’n
several moments, when Kellup Cobb come. He had heerd the news of her goin’ home,
and he looked anxious and careworn. And his hair and whiskers and eyebrows bein’
a sort of a dark mournful color that day, made him look worse. He had been
foolin’ with logwood and alum, and a lot of such stuff. He said, “he was fairly
beat out a layin’ awake the night before.”

“What ails you?” says I. “What is the matter?”

“Wimmen is what ails me!” says he with a bitter look. “Wimmen is what is the
matter! Why,” says he, “wimmen make such fools of themselves about me, that it
is a wonder that I get any sleep at all; I shouldn’t,” says he firmly, “I know I
shouldn’t, if I didn’t get so sleepy and sort o’ drowse off.”

“Well,” says I reasonably, “I don’t s’pose we should any of us get much sleep,
if it wasn’t for that.”

Says he, speakin’ out firm and decided, “I want to do right. I want to do the
fair thing by wimmen. But there it is. How can I? Now here is Kitty Smith goin
off droopin’ and low-sperited, I s’pose, jest on my account. And situated as I
be, how be I goin’ to help myself, or chirk her up before she goes? “I think my
eyes of that girl. And I jest about made up my mind, last night, in the dead of
night (for I don’t believe I slept a wink before ten o’clock), I jest about made
up my mind that marry her I would, and let the rest of the wimmen live or die,
jist as they was a mind to. “Why, I think so much of that girl, that it jest
about kills me to think of her goin off home, as them without hope. But what can
I do? I dassent say right out that I will marry her, till I look round and see
what would foller. I want to see the doctor! I want to see what he thinks, if he
thinks the effects of such a terrible blow onto the fair sect would be worse at
this time of the year. It is a sickly time. Mebby they would stand it better
some other time of the year. “But,” says he, “this I think I may safely promise
you; this, I think, will chirk her up a good deal: I will write to her. I will
kinder watch things, and enquire ’round, and see what I can do—see how they
would seem likely to stand it, and if I see it haint likely to kill ten or
fifteen, I will try to get round and marry her. You tell her so from me. And
tell her I will write to her, anyway. My very heart-strings seemed wrapped round
that girl,” says he, sithin’ hard, “and how I am a goin’ to stand it is more
than I can tell, to think of her bein’ way off there alone, a sufferin’ and
droopin’ round, on my account. “But this letter will probable be the greatest
comfort she can have next to havin’ me myself. You will be apt to write to her?”
says he anxiously. “Yes,” says I, “most probable I shall.”

“Wall,” says he, “I will put in a letter with you when you write. It haint the
postage that is the stick with me, it haint the 3 cents I mind. But if I can’t,
after all my efforts, see my way clear to marry her, it would seem more cruel
and cold-blooded in me, to have gin her the encouragement of sendin her a letter
by myself, all stamped and paid for by me, than it would to send it in with
somebody else.” Says he, “Don’t you think so?”

Says I in a sort of a blind way, “I think of a great many things that it
wouldn’t do to tell of.”

“Yes,” says he, “you probable pity me, and realize the situation I am placed in,
more than you feel free to tell. You probable think that sympathy would break me
down—make me feel worse.”

“Yes,” says I firmly, “I don’t feel free to tell my opinion of you. It would be
apt to make you feel worse.”

“You are a woman of principle, Josiah Allen’s wife, and a woman of strong sense.
You realize my situation—you feel for the condition of my heart.”

“Yes, and your head too,” says I; “I realize jist what has ailed you, ever sense
you was born. But,” says I, wantin’ to turn the subject, for I was sick of it,
sick as a dog. Says I “you wuzn’t to meetin’ last night wuz you?” Says I, “We
wimmen talked it over after the meetin’, and we are goin to take up a collection
to make Miss Bamber a present of a new black dress. We are goin’ to ask each
church-member to give jest one sixpence, and one sixpence apiece from the 250
members will get her a good bumbazeen dress, or a very nice alpacka. And so,”
says I, “I thought I would ask you for your sixpence.”

Knowin’ it is Kellup’s duty to be tackled for the good of the meetin-house, I
will, no matter whether he will give anything or not, I will insist on tacklin’
him. Says I, “You know Miss Bamber has lost her mother-in-law and wants to mourn
for her—wants to the worst kind, and can’t.”

“Why can’t she mourn?” says Kellup. “Why,” says I, “She can’t mourn, because she
haint got no dress suitable to mourn in, thats why Miss Bamber feels like death
about it. She knows it is her duty to mourn, and she wants to, like a dog, but
can’t.”

Says Kellup, lookin stingy, awful unwillin’ to give anything, “She can mourn
jest as bad in one dress as another, or without any.”

“Wall,” says I reasonably, “So I think. But everybody has their little different
ways and excentricities, and it don’t look well for us to meddle with ’em. Now
that feller by the name of Procrustes, at Attica village. Now, I always thought
he went too far. He had a iron bedstead, and he used to make everybody that
traveled his way lay down on it, and if their legs was too short, he would
stretch ’em out to fit that bedstead, and if they was too long, he would saw ’em
off.”

Now Mr. Procrustes wuzn’t doin’ exactly the fair thing. What earthly business
was it of his, if other folks’es legs was too long to be convenient, or too
short? It wuzn’t his place to trim ’em off, or stretch ’em. And I always thought
that if I had had business in his neighborhood, and been travelin’ that way, and
he had tried to fit me or Josiah to that bedstead, why, I always thought he
would have seen trouble. I should have gin him a awful talkin’ to, and kicked.
Mr. Procrustes is dead. Yes, I believe old Thesius, a neighber of his’en, killed
him upon some mountain or other. I presume he got to stretchin’ old Thesius’es
legs out, or begun to saw ’em off, and got the old man mad, and he jest laid to
and killed him. [Illustration: TAKIN’ A REEF.] Yes, I believe old Mr. Procrustes
hain’t livin’ at the present time, but he left a large, a very large family. And
every one of ’em inherits the old gentleman’s traits and disposition. I have
seen lots of ’em that, if they dast, would have every leg in the world jest the
length of their’n. If they dast, they would tackle you in a minute with a saw or
a broad-axe. “But I never felt that way. Now, as fur as my own feelin’s are
concerned, I think memories can haunt anybody, and hearts can ache jest as
severe under a white dress as a black one, and visey versey. Hearts can beat gay
and triumphant aginst bumbuzeen bodist waists and crape trimmin’s. But Miss
Bamber feels different. She feels that she can’t mourn without certain
conveniences. And feelin’ in that way, and feelin’ that it would be a duty and a
privilege for her to mourn for her mother-in-law, I say that woman shall have
the wherewith to do it with. I say she shall mourn if she wants to; she shall be
helped to a black dress. There hain’t a member of the meetin’-house but what can
give a six-pence without feelin’ it. We want to keep it all still from Miss
Bamber, and get it, and get it all made for her before she knows a thing about
it. And,” says I, “mebby you had better give me the six-pence to-day, as we have
got it about all collected, and want to get the dress right away.”

Says he, “Hain’t there nobody else whose duty it is to get the dress? Her
relations? I should think it was their duty to help.”

Never did I ask a stingy human creeter for help for the poor, or help for the
meetin’-house, but what this argument was dragged up by ’em. Tryin’ to shirk off
their own duty onto somebody else. “No,” says I, “her family is all dead. She
hain’t got but one relation in the world, and that is an aunt of her
grandmother’s; and she is supported by the town.”

“Wall,” says he, cheerfully, “mebby the town would feel like gettin’ this
dress.”

I jest give him a look, and never said another word,—only jest that look. But I
s’pose that look spoke louder and awfuler than words, for he hastened to say, in
a apologizin’ way:

“I didn’t know but the town would want to—would feel it a privilege to—”

I still didn’t say nothin’, only jest that awful look. And agin he says, in a
apologizin’ way:

“I would advance the six-pence to you, I would try to raise it some way for you,
but the hard times we have had, and are havin’, have depressed all sorts of
business so, we have suffered terribly financially as well as the other public.
We have got a great deal of money to make out this fall—over 10 dollars. Father
hain’t a bit well; my health hain’t what it once was; our expenses are
enormious—taxes, household expenses, clothin’; and takin’ all these things into
consideration, together with the public debt, the withdrawal of funds by foreign
capitalists, the almost total stagnation of public enterprize, the total lack of
public confidence, the total—”

Says I, “Put in total selfishness and total meanness, and keep your six-pence.”

I don’t believe I have been more wore out in over seven months,—and mad. “Wall,”
says he, lookin’ relieved, “if you will excuse me, I won’t make no move towards
raisin’ the money for you. It would probable cramp me considerable to raise the
sum jest at this present time.”

And then he begun about Kitty agin. Says he, knittin’ up his eyebrow hard, and
lookin’ gloomy:

“I never calculated to fall in love with a poor girl. It never used to pass my
mind that I ever should select such a one out of the hundreds that stand round
me, hankerin’ to marry me. But I have done it. Why, sometimes I think I couldn’t
love that girl any more if she was worth two hundred and 50 dollars. I think so
much of her that it is as hard for me as loosin’ a limb, almost like loosin’ my
pocket-book, to think of her bein’ way off there a pinin’ for me, and bein’ on a
perfect rack, not knowin’ whether she will get me or not. “When I think of that
side of the question, Josiah Allen’s wife, I feel jest like leavin’ word here
with you for her, that I will marry her, whether or no. But then, jest like a
blow aginst the side of my head, comes the thought of them other wimmen, that
had hopes before she come to Jonesville that they would get me. I believe,
anyway, it will be safe to leave word here for her to keep up good courage, and
try not to get too cast down and melancholy; to hope for the best; and I’ll do
everything I can. I’ll enquire round about the wimmen, see the doctor, and try
to arrange things for her good and happiness; try to get round and marry her. At
the same time,” says he, with a cautious look, “I would feel it my duty to warn
her to not get so bound up in me that the disappointment would kill her, if she
should lose me.”

“Wall,” says I, bein’ wore almost completely out, “I must go and skim the milk
for the calves.”

And he took the hint and started off, and glad enough was I to see him go. But
jest as he went down the steps, and I turned to go into the buttery, I see a
paper of indigo that Marier Burpey had left here that very day. She had forgot
it, and I knew she was in a hurry a colorin’; so I jest carried it to the door,
and asked Kellup if he would carry it to her, knowin’ he had to go right by her
door. “No,” says he, firmly, “I dassent do it.” And he looked anxious and skairt
as he said it. “I’d be glad to, but I dassent,” says he. “I have to make my
demeanor perfectly stunny towards that girl, in order to keep her affection
anywhere within bounds. She don’t show it any by her looks or actions—she has
got almost marble self-control; but I see right through it. I see that she
almost worships me. I see that I am makin’ her perfectly unhappy; and when I
think of Sofier’s fate, I tremble for Marier. I am careful; I am a careful
feller; I am on my guard. And at the present time, situated as I be in regard to
Kitty, I feel that I ort to be doubly careful. But at any and every time a young
man like me can’t be too careful when they are round amongst wimmen.”

“Nobody wouldn’t mistrust you was makin’ such havock,” says I, mechanically, for
I really didn’t know what to say. [Illustration: MARIER BURPEY.] “Yes, if a
young man like me is unprincipled enough to go headlong into wimmen’s company
without lookin’ where he is goin’, without actin’ offish and cold to ’em, why,
before that man knows it, he is a wadin’ through goar. Bleedin’ hearts lay round
him on every side a bleedin’. Why don’t other young men think of these things?
Why hain’t they more careful, more offish?”

Says I, with feelin’, “That’s so, why hain’t they? The offisher some men be, the
more I think on ’em.” And I looked longin’ly at the path down to the gate, and
the road to Jonesville. “Yes, you know what actin’ on principle means. That is
why I respect you, confide in you.”

“Then you don’t think you can carry the indigo?” says I, turnin’ to go in. “No,”
says he, firm as marble, and as sot as that stun. “I’d love to accommodate you,
but I dassent. When I think of the fate of Sofier, when I think of the deadly
blows my conscience dealt to me every minute, as I drove her hearse to the
buryin’-ground—then I feel as if I had almost ruther lose ten cents than go
through it agin with Marier. I feel that I must not be resky, and do anything to
ensnare her affections.”

“Good land!” says I, “indigo won’t be likely to ensnare ’em, will it?”

“Other men might handle it safe, men with less attractions than I have got, but
I can’t, I dassent.”

And I wouldn’t demean myself by urgin’ him another word. And I went into the
house, and he started off. Wall, as I was a sayin’, Kitty had been gone two
weeks, the day Nathan and Cassandra visited me, and this letter from her,
brought in to me while I was a gettin’ the dinner onto the table, brought news
that was startlin’ and agitatin’ in the extreme. I was jest a stirrin’ some
sweet cream and butter together over the stove, havin’ a fresh salmon trout for
dinner, and Josiah bein’ fond of that kind of gravy to eat with it, and Nathan
bein’ such a clever creeter, offered to stir it for me, while I read the letter.
And I was so anxious to git the news, that I let him do it, though, the stove
bein’ so hot, take it with that and his burnin’ blushes, it made a pretty hot
time for him. But the news was this: Kitty was married. But the curiousest and
most agitatin’ part of the news was, the old gentleman, Mark’s father, had got
after Kitty’s mother. He went to give her a scoldin’, and fell in love with her
on the spot. Like Hamen, he got hung on his own gallowses—went to smite her, and
got smit himself, awful. So he courted her up violent and powerful, and they all
got married the same day. It was very pleasant and agreeable news to me, and to
Josiah. And Cassandra and Nathan acted well about it. They said they was glad it
all turned out so well, but their minds didn’t seem to be on the news so much as
they was on their babe. And it is a very good-lookin’ child, and appears
middlin’ well for a child of its age. Takes after its father some—sort o’ sandy,
with red hair. It don’t look much, as little Samantha Jo did, nor it don’t have
that noble, beautiful appearance she had at that age. But then you can’t expect
that any other child is ever goin’ to look and act like her. I do despise people
bein’ so bound up in their own childern and grandchildern that they can’t see no
good qualities in any other childern. Thank fortune that hain’t my way, nor
never was. And I say, and I always shall say, that Cassandra’s babe hain’t a
babe to be ashamed of, and feel above, not by any means. Bein’ so awful bashful,
Nathan don’t probable associate with it so much, and act on such intimate terms
with it as he would if it wuzn’t for that. But in a mild, sheepish way, he seems
to think the world of it, and seems to want to do everything he can to make it
feel to home with ’em, and happy. But he don’t come out openly and express his
admiration and affection, as he would if it wuzn’t for that drawback. Now, he
dassent hold it much, or that is, he don’t seem to dast. But Cassandra bein’
proud-spirited, and wantin’ Nathan to show off some, would once in a while put
the babe in his lap. He never would make any move to stop her. He never would
refuse to take it. He would set and hold it jest as long as she felt disposed to
leave it there. But he would look down on it in a skairt, wonderin’, breathless
way, as if the child got there in his lap through some mysterious and
inscrutable decree of Providence, and it wuzn’t for him to resist. But he
suffered intensely at such times, I could see. And every little while Cassandra
(bein’ determined to make Nathan show off) would tell him to say sunthin’ to the
babe, talk baby-talk to it. And he would always try to. He would always do jest
as Cassandra told him to (a cleverer critter never walked). His face would be as
red as a red handkerchief, but he would ask the babe, up in a little, high, fine
voice:

[Illustration: “DO YOU WANT A PAIR OF BOOTS?”]

“Do you want a pair of boots?”

He never made any other remark to the child that I heard, only jest that. I
heard him say that to it more’n 20 times, I dare persume to say. For Cassandra,
bein’ so anxious to have him show off, kep’ tellin’ him to talk to it. And it
seemed as if that remark was all he could think of that would be agreeable to
the child. But Josiah said, as we was talkin’ it over afterwards, that he heard
him say two or three times to it:

“Yes, it shall have a pair of boots.”

But it must have been when I was out a gettin’ dinner. For if I was under oath I
would say that I didn’t hear him say a single thing to it, only jest this:

“Do you want a pair of boots?”

They started for home jest after dinner, Nathan havin’ left some work that must
be done. And Josiah hitched up and went to Jonesville to mill. And I s’pose he
told the news about Kitty there. But it wuzn’t till the next afternoon that I
heard what the effects of that news wuz in a certain place and to a certain
feller. And though it hain’t always best to mention names, and come right out
plain and talk, yet it probable won’t do no hurt to mention that you might
expect Kellup Cobb, under any circumstances, would act like a fool.
[Illustration: THRILLING NEWS.] I was down to the creek lot, pickin’ a few
berries for supper, when Josiah told me on’t. It had got a little later than I
thought for, and Josiah had come down after me, bein’ worried about me. It was
only a little ways from the house. I had put the tea-kettle on, and sot the
table, before I had come out, and the tea-kettle was a bilin’, so Josiah said,
after he told me the news. The news was thrillin’ and agitatin’ in the extreme.
He said Kellup Cobb had disappeared the night before, after the news of Kitty’s
marriage had got abroad in Jonesville. They said that he felt so that he
disappeared, he and the hearse and Elder Judas Wart—the hull three on ’em.
Kellup had been on intimate terms with Judas Wart for some time; and some think
that Kellup bein’ so cut down by Kitty’s marriage, and the Elder bein’ so cut
down by my witherin’ eloquence and Josiah’s broom-handle, that they both got
into the hearse, and drove off in it to Utah to jine the Mormons. And some think
that they sold the hearse, and took the money, and went to Salt Lake by rail.
Which last way, I told my Josiah, when he mentioned it, was the proper way to go
there, if it wuz the right kind of a rail. But anyway, they had gone, the hull
three on ’em, and there hain’t been a word heard from ’em sense in Jonesville.
Josiah said old Cobb felt awfully. Says I, “To lose Kellup?”

“No,” says he, “to lose the hearse.”

But I jest repeated this line of poetry to my pardner. Says I:

“Poetry, Josiah, will somehow express the feelin’s of the soul better than you
can express them yourself.” And says I, “Josiah, as for Elder Judas Wart and
Kellup, I say with the poet, good riddance to bad rubbidge.”

“Wall,” says Josiah, with a sort of a dreamy look,—that man loves poetry, though
he seldom quotes it—“don’t you s’pose, Samantha, that you have got about enough
berries for supper, for I am gettin’ hungry as a bear.”

“Yes,” says I, “because I have got stewed peaches and cold chicken and
everything else good for supper besides them. But,” says I, lookin’ sort o’
longin’ly at some berries that was a hangin’ over the water, “there is a few
extra big and ripe ones that do look too good to leave.”

“Wall,” says he, sweetly (for his mean sense I told him what we was goin’ to
have for supper had looked perfectly beautiful), “you set down and rest,
Samantha, and I will pick ’em for you.”

And so he took my little tin pail, and with a happy frame bent down to pick ’em.
And I, bein’ tired, sot down, and looked into the water. And I see that
everything was reflected in it. The trees, the nodding red sumac feathers, my
Josiah and me, gay golden-rod and wild blue china-oysters, the berry bushes, the
thorny stalks and the ripe fruit, fresh posys, and withered leaves; all imaged
there in the water; and the water was a runnin’ swift. And out on the end of a
slender bush that hung over the water, a bird swayed and swung to and fro, and
sung out a dretful sort of a sweet song, yet sad like. Some as if it was
practicin’ over a farewell song to its home, its happy nest, before it sailed
away south in search of a balmier climate. So the bird sailed back and forth on
that slender twig, over the deep waters, a singin’ about a happier country,
sweet and sad, sweet and low. And my pardner picked the ripe berries, and I sot
there peaceful and serene (though some sweaty), a thinkin’ how, over all that
was pictured on the changing face of the waters, the changeless blue heavens was
reflected, shining down over all, the old and the new, the mournful and the
sorrowful; over all, and beneath all. That thought was perfectly beautiful to
me, and dretful comfortin’. And I sot there a thinkin’ of that, and a thinkin’
how swift the water was a runnin’ towards the sea. THE END.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

HAVE YOU READ                        =MY OPINIONS=
AND                             BETSEY BOBBET’S

By JOSIAH ALLEN’S WIFE? AUTHOR OF         “SAMANTHA AT THE CENTENNIAL,” AND “MY
WAYWARD PARDNER.”

=IF NOT GET IT THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY.=

---------------------------------------------------------

This book is one of those indescribable ones, of which little can be said except
that it is rich and spicy throughout, readable and fascinating, brimfull of
humor and sharp things—yet not a line in it, that does not point a moral, and
teach a lesson. It will create a sensation whenever read, and no one will enjoy
it better than the ladies, although it deals with them in a plain way. The men
will like it, the children will like it, all will like and laugh over it, and
remember its teachings long afterwards. The Public will make no mistake in
purchasing this book, as it is full of good things, which will at once arrest
and rivet the attention of the reader. Never was a character’s lines drawn more
distinctly than that of Josiah’s wife, and her originals will be found among the
acquaintances of many. Cute, wise, shrewd and observing, with a vein of strong
common sense, yet simple and innocent as a child, she will keep the reader
crammed with sharp hits and funny observations. Betsey Bobbet’s opinions act
upon Josiah’s wife’s, as settings do upon diamonds: adding to their brightness
and resplendency. The book contains 432 Pages, and is _filled with Pictures_,
put in, as the author says, to _explain the text_. =_Price in Fine English
Morocco Cloth_=,                     =_$2.50_=

”    ”    ”     ”       ”                      _Gilt       =_3.00_=
Edges_,

”    ”   _Half Turkey Morocco_,                  ”         =_4.00_=

The book can be had by addressing

AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO.,                 =AGENTS WANTED.=         HARTFORD CONN.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

JOSIAH ALLEN’S WIFE’S

AS A

=P. A. and P. I.=

[Illustration: JOSIAH’S FIVE HOURS’ RIDE.] Samantha at the Centennial.
--------------

BY THE AUTHOR OF       “MY OPINIONS AND BETSEY BOBBET’S,” AND “MY WAYWARD
PARDNER.”

--------------

This book the writer sends forth to the world, expecting it will (as did other
martyrs: John Rogers and etcetery) tread on the hot coals of public opinion; be
briled on the gridiron old bigotry keeps to brile her enemies on; be scalded by
the melted lead of old custom; and be burnt up on the stake of opposition; yet
still, upheld by firm principle and lofty emotions, she is able to say: “I am
happy in the thought.”

=_A kind and noble Artist has risked his fame by                  drawing a few
pictures for the book._=

THIS VOLUME CONTAINS 580 PAGES,

=25 Full-Page and 50 other Engravings=

_Prices: In Fine English Cloth, $2.50; do. do., Gilt Edge, $3.00;
Half Turkey Morocco, $4.00._

The book can be had by addressing

AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO.,                  =AGENTS WANTED.=       HARTFORD CONN.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Transcriber’s Note

The Table of Contents had several errors in pagination, briefly off by two
pages. These have been corrected. On p. 198, a lengthy (and literally)
parenthetic remark begins in mid-sentence and finishes with the following
paragraph. Errors deemed most likely to be the printer’s have been corrected,
and are noted here. The references are to the page and line in the original. The
following issues should be noted, along with the resolutions. ix.6     How he
Courted Cassandr[i]a                    Removed. 52.16    it cannot long [h/b]e
hid                      Replaced. 61.15    if I was in his place. [”]
Removed. 62.10    for I may not marry at all. [’/”]               Replaced. 72.3
I am most afraid it is resky then. [”]          Added. 103.18   my tooth-brush.
[”]                             Removed. 103.19   the tooth[ /-]brush
Replaced. 113.6    [“]Says I:                                     Removed.
114.17   but it se[mede/emed] as                        Transposed. 210.5
poke at [’]em                                  Added. 240.7    [“]And
superintendents                         Added. 243.1    and not fatigue
[your-]yourself                Removed. 248.8    we was a marchin[’] round
Added. 383.5    Tamer Moony,[’/”] says I,                      Replaced. 426.15
right away from happiness. [”]                  Added. 473.1    [“]Says I, in a
sort of a blind way,           Removed.