CHAPTER I.

Mrs. Major Bids For Paradise.
I.
Impossible to tell how far will spread the ripples from the lightest action that we may toss into the sea of life.
Life is a game of consequences.
A throws a stone, and the widening ripples wreck the little boats of X and Y and Z who never have even heard of A.
Every day and every night, every hour of every day and night, ripples from unknown splashes are setting towards us--perhaps to swamp us, perhaps to bear us into some pleasant stream.
One calls it luck, another fate.
“This is my just punishment,” cries one.
“By my good works I have merited this,” exclaims another; but it is merely the ripple from some distant splash--merely consequences.
Consequences.
A sleepy maid in Mr. City Merchant's suburban mansion leaves the dust-pan on the stairs after sweeping.
That is the little action she has tossed into the sea of life, and the ripples will wreck a boat or two now snug and safe in a cheap and happy home many miles away.
Mr. City Merchant trips over the dustpan, starts for office fuming with rage, vents his spleen upon Mr. City Clerk--dismisses him.
Mr. City Clerk seeks work in vain; the cheap but happy home he shares with pretty little Mrs. City Clerk and plump young Master City Clerk is abandoned for a dingy lodging.
Grade by grade the lodging they must seek grows dingier.
Now there is no food.
Now they are getting desperate.
Now pneumonia lays erstwhile plump Master City Clerk by the heels and carries him off--consequences, consequences; that is one boat wrecked.
Now Mr. City Clerk is growing mad with despair; Mrs. City Clerk is well upon the road that Master City Clerk has followed.
Mr. City Clerk steals, is caught, is imprisoned--consequences, consequences; another boat wrecked.
Mrs. City Clerk does not hold out long, follows Master City Clerk--consequences, consequences.
Three innocent craft smashed up because the housemaid left the dustpan on the stairs.
II.
Impossible to tell how far will speed the ripples from the lightest action that we may toss into the sea of life.
Solely and wholly because George abducted the Rose of Sharon, Miss Pridham, who keeps the general drapery in Angel Street, Marylebone Road, sold a pair of green knitted slippers, each decorated with a red knitted blob, that had gazed melancholy from her shop window for close upon two years.
It was Mrs. Major who purchased them.
Since that terrible morning on which, throat and mouth parched, head painfully throbbing through the overnight entertainment of Old Tom, Mrs. Major had been driven from Mr. Marrapit's door, this doubly distressed gentlewoman had lived in retirement in a bed-sitting-room in Angel Street.
She did not purpose immediately taking another situation.
This woman had sipped the delights of Herons' Holt; her heart was there, and for a month or two, as, sighing over her lot, she determined, she would brood in solitude upon the paradise she had lost before challenging new fortunes.
The ripples of the abduction of the Rose reached her.
This was a masterly woman, and instanter she took the tide upon the flood.
Mrs. Major was not a newspaper reader.
The most important sheet of the _Daily_, however, she one day carried into her bed-sitting-room wrapped about a quartern of Old Tom.
It was the day when first “Country House Outrage” shouted from the _Daily's_ columns.
Idly scanning the report her eye chanced upon familiar names.
A common mind would have been struck astonished and for some hours been left fluttering.
Your masterly mind grasps at once and together a solution and its possibilities.
Without pause for thought, without even sniff of the new quartern of Old Tom, Mrs. Major sought pen and paper; wrote with inspired pen to Mr. Marrapit:

“I do not even dare begin 'Dear Mr.
Marrapit.'
I have forfeited the right even to address you; but in the moment of your great tribulation something stronger than myself makes me take up my pen--”

Here Mrs. Major paused; read what she had written; without so much as a sigh tore the sheet and started afresh.
That “something stronger than myself makes me” she felt to be a mistake.
Something decidedly stronger than herself sat in the quartern bottle a few inches from her nose, and it occurred to her that a cruel mind might thus interpret her meaning.
She tore the sheet.
This was a masterly woman.
“I dare not even begin 'Dear Mr.
Marrapit.'
I have forfeited the right even to address you; but in the moment of your tribulation I feel that I must come forward with my sympathy.
Oh, Mr. Marrapit, may I say with my aid?
I feel I could help you if only I might come to dear, dear Herons' Holt.
When I think of my angel darling Rose of Sharon straying far from the fold my heart bleeds.
Oh, Mr. Marrapit, I cannot rest, I cannot live, while my darling is wandering on the hillside, or is stolen, and I am unable to search for her.
Oh, Mr. Marrapit, think of me, I implore you, not as Mrs. Major, but as one whom your sweet darling Rose loved.
If the Rose is anywhere near Herons' Holt, she would come to me if I called her, I feel sure, more readily than she would come to anyone else except yourself, and you are not strong enough to search as I would search.
Oh, Mr. Marrapit, let me come to Herons' Holt in this terrible hour.
Do not speak to me, do not look at me, Mr. Marrapit.
I do not ask that.
I only beg on my bended knees that you will let me lay myself at night even in the gardener's shed, so that I may be there to tend my lamb when she is found, and by day will be able to search for her.
That is all I ask.
“Of myself I will say nothing.
I will not force upon you the explanations of that dreadful night which you would not take from my trembling lips.
I will not tell you that, maddened by the toothache, I was advised to hold a little drop of spirit in the tooth, and that, never having touched anything but water since I and my dear little brother promised my dying mother we would not, the spirit went to my head and made me as you saw me.
I will not write any of those things, Mr. Marrapit; only, oh, Mr. Marrapit, I implore you to let me come and look for my Rose.
Nor will I tell you how fondly, since I left you, I have thought of all your nobility of character and of your goodness to me, Mr. Marrapit.
Wronged, I bear no resentment.
I have received too much kindness at your hands.
Ever since I left you I have thought of none but the Rose and you.
Shall I prove that?
I will, Mr. Marrapit--”

Here again Mrs. Major paused; thoughtfully scratched her head with her penholder.
Like authors more experienced, her emotions had driven her pen to a point demanding a special solution which was not immediately forthcoming.
She had galloped into a wood.
How to get out of it?
Mrs. Major scratched thoughtfully; gazed at Old Tom; gazed round the room; on a happy inspiration gazed from the window.
Miss Pridham's general drapery was immediately opposite.
A bright patch of green in the window caught Mrs. Major's eye.
She recognised it as the knitted slippers she had once or twice noticed in passing.
The very thing!
Laying down her pen the masterly woman popped across to Miss Pridham's; in two minutes, leaving that lady delighted and one-and-eleven-three the richer, was back with the green knitted slippers with the red knitted blobs.
She took up her pen and continued:

“Ever since I left I have thought of none but the Rose and you.
Shall I prove that?
I will, Mr. Marrapit.
Oh, Mr. Marrapit, I make so bold as to send you in a little parcel a pair of woollen slippers that I have knitted for you.”

Mrs. Major examined them.
Such sun as creeps into Angel Street, Marylebone Road, jealous of rival brightness had filched their first delicate tint of green, had stolen the first passionate scarlet of the red blobs.
She continued:

“They are a little faded because on every stitch a bitter tear has fallen.
Yes, Mr. Marrapit, my tears of sorrow have rained upon these slippers as I worked.
Oh, Mr. Marrapit, they are not damp, however.
Every evening since they were finished I have had my little fire lighted and have stood the slippers up against the fender; and then, sitting on the opposite side of the hearth, just as I used to sit for a few minutes with you after we had brought in the darling cats, I have imagined that your feet were in the slippers and have imagined that I am back where I have left my bleeding heart.
I never meant to dare send them to you, Mr. Marrapit, but in this moment of your tribulation I make bold to do so.
Do not open the parcel, Mr. Marrapit, if you would rather not.
Hurl it on the fire and let the burning fiery furnace consume them, tears and all.
But I feel I must send them, whatever their fate.
“Oh, Mr. Marrapit, let me come to Herons' Holt to find my darling Rose!--then without a word I will creep away and die.--LUCY MAJOR.”

III.
Upon the following morning there sped to Mrs. Major from Herons' Holt a telegram bearing the message “Come.”

Frantic to clutch at any straw that might bring to him this Rose, Mr. Marrapit eagerly clutched at Mrs. Major.
He felt there to be much truth, in her contention that his Rose, if secreted near by, would come quicker at her call than at the call of another.
His Rose had known and loved her for a full year.
His Rose, refined cat, did not take quickly to strangers, and had not--he had noticed it--given herself to Miss Humfray.
Therefore Mr. Marrapit eagerly clutched at Mrs. Major.
As to the remainder of her letter--it considerably perturbed him.
Had he misjudged this woman, whom once he had held estimable?
All the delectable peace of his household during her reign, as contrasted with the turmoil that now had taken its place, came back to him and smote his heart.
He opened the slippers, noted the tear-stains.
Had he misjudged her?
What more likely than her story of the racking tooth that must be lulled with a little drop of spirit?
Had he misjudged her?
But as against that little drop of spirit, how account for the vast and empty bottle of Old Tom found in her room?
Had he misjudged her?
In much conflict of mind this man paced the breakfast room, a green knitted slipper with red knitted blob in either hand.
It was thus that Margaret, entering, found him.
With a soft little laugh, “Oh, father!” she cried, “what have you got there?”

Mr. Marrapit raised the green knitted slippers with the red knitted blobs.
“A contrite heart,” he answered.
“A stricken and a contrite heart.”

He resumed his pacing.
Margaret squeezed round the door which happily she had left ajar; fled breakfastless.
Quick at poetic image though she was, the symbol of a contrite heart in a pair of green knitted slippers with red knitted blobs was not clear to this girl.
In her father it alarmed her.
This great sorrow was perchance turning his brain.
Mr. Marrapit laid the slippers upon his dressing-table; that afternoon greeted Mrs. Major with a circumspect reserve.
Combining the vast and empty bottle of Old Tom with the fact that never had his judgment of man or matter failed him, he determined that Mrs. Major was guilty.
But not wilfully guilty.
Tempted to drown pain, she had succumbed; but the slippers were the sign of a contrite heart.
The masterly possessor of the contrite heart betrayed no signs of its flutterings and its exultant boundings at being once more in paradise.
This was a masterly woman, and, masterly, she grasped at once her position--without hesitation started to play her part.
In Mr. Marrapit's study she stood humbly before him with bowed head; did not speak.
Her only sounds were those of repressed emotion as Mr. Marrapit recited the history of the abduction.
The white handkerchief she kept pressed against her chin punctuated the story with sudden little dabs first to one eye then the other.
Little sniffs escaped her; little catches of the breath; tiny little moans.
She choked when he had finished: “Let me see--my darling's--bed.”

Mr Marrapit led the way.
Above the silk-lined box whence George had snatched the Rose, the masterly woman knelt.
She fondled the silken coverlet; her lips moved.
Suddenly she dashed her handkerchief to her eyes; with beautiful moans fled hurriedly to the bedroom that had been allotted her.
It was an exquisitely touching sight.
Mr. Marrapit, greatly moved, went to his room; took out the green knitted slippers with the red knitted blobs.
Had he misjudged this woman?
Ten minutes later he again encountered Mrs. Major.
Now she was girt against the weather and against exercise.
Beneath her chin were firmly knotted the strings of her sober bonnet; a short skirt hid nothing of the stout boots she had donned; her hand grasped the knob of a bludgeon-like umbrella.
The masterly woman had removed all traces of her emotion.
In a voice humble yet strong, “I start to search, Mr. Marrapit,” she said.
“I will find the Rose if she is to be found.”

So deep sincerity was in her speech, so strong she seemed, so restful in this crisis, that Mr. Marrapit, watching her stride the drive, again fell to pacing and cogitation--had he misjudged her?
Almost unconsciously he moved upstairs to his room; drew those green slippers with red blobs from their drawer.
IV.
Had Mr. Marrapit doubted the sincerity of Mrs. Major's search, assuredly he would have misjudged her.
In her diary that night the masterly woman inscribed:

“_Am here; must stick_.”

Her best chance of sticking, as well she knew, lay in finding the Rose.
Could she but place that creature's exquisite form in Mr. Marrapit's arms, she felt that her reward would be to win back to the paradise from which Old Tom had driven her.
Therefore most strenuously she scoured the countryside; pried into houses; popped her head into stable doors.
This woman nothing spared herself; in the result, at the end of two days, was considerably dejected.
For it was clear to her that the Rose had not strayed, but had been stolen; was not concealed in the vicinity of Herons' Holt, but had been spirited to the safety of many miles.
She was driven to accept Mr. Brunger's opinion--the Rose had been stolen by some eager and unscrupulous breeder to be used for gross purposes.
It was upon the evening of the second day in paradise that this woman settled upon this gloomy conclusion.
Gloomy it was, and desperately, sitting in her bedroom that night, the masterly woman battled for some way to circumvent it.
To that entry made in her diary on the night of her arrival she had added two further sentences:

_“Hate that baby-faced Humfray chit.”

“Certain cannot stick unless find cat.”_

Opening her diary now she gazed upon these entries; chewed them.
They were bitter to the taste.
To agony at what she had lost was added mortification at seeing another in her place; and rankling in this huge wound was the poison of the knowledge that she could not win back.
Circumstances were too strong.
The cat was not to be found, and--stabbing thought--“certain cannot stick unless find cat.”

This way and that the masterly woman twisted in search of a means to circumvent her position.
It might be done by accomplishing the overthrow of this baby-faced chit.
If the baby-faced chit could be made to displease Mr. Marrapit and be turned out, it would surely be possible, being ready at hand, to take her place.
But how could the baby-faced chit be made to err?
This way and that Mrs. Major twisted and could find no means.
Always she was forced back to the brick-wall fact--salvation lay only in finding the cat.
That would accomplish everything.
She would have succeeded where the baby-faced chit had failed; she would have proved her devotion; she, would have earned, not a doubt of it, the reward of re-entry into paradise that Mr. Marrapit in his gratitude would more than offer--would press upon her.
But the cat was not to be found.
Beating up against the desperate barrier of that thought, Mrs. Major groaned aloud as she paced the room, threw up her arms in her despair.
The action caused her to swerve; with hideous violence she crashed her stockinged foot against the leg of the wash-stand.
Impossible to tell how far will spread the ripples of the lightest action we may toss upon the sea of life.
The stunning agony in this woman's toes, as, hopping to the bed, she sat and nursed them, with the swiftness of thought presented to her a solution of her difficulty that struck her staring with excitement.
Her first thought in her throbbing pain was of remedy for the bruise.
“Bruise” brought involuntarily to her mind the picture of a chemist's shop in the Edgware Road, not far from Angel Street, whose window she had seen filled with little boxes of “Bruisine,” the newest specific for abrasions.
Thence her thoughts, by direct passage, jumped to the time when last she had noticed the shop--she had been returning from a stroll by way of Sussex Gardens.
And it was while mentally retracing that walk down Sussex Gardens that Mrs. Major lit plump upon the solution of her difficulty.
She had noticed, let out for a run from No.
506, an orange cat that was so precisely the image of the Rose of Sharon that she had stopped to stroke it for dear memory's sake.
Often since then she had spoken to it; every time had been the more struck by its extraordinary resemblance to the Rose.
She had reflected that, seen together, she could not have told them apart.
Mrs. Major forgot the throbbing of her abrased toes.
Her brows knitted by concentration of thought, very slowly the masterly woman concluded her disrobing.
Each private garment that she stripped and laid aside marked a forward step in the indomitable purpose she had conceived.
As her fingers drew the most private from her person, leaving it naked, so from her plan did her masterly mind draw the last veil that filmed it, leaving it clear.
When the Jaeger nightdress fell comfortably about her, her purpose too was presentable and warm.
Every day and every night, every hour of every day and night, ripples from unknown splashes are setting towards us.
From this masterly woman, in process of toilet, ripples were setting towards a modest and unsuspecting cat lying in sweet slumber at 506 Sussex Gardens, off the Edgware Road.
For the masterly woman had thus determined--she would have that cat that was the Rose's second self.
The Rose was in the hands of some villain breeder and would never be returned; small fear of discovery under that head.
This cat was the Rose's second self; differences that Mr. Marrapit might discover, lack of affection that he might notice, could be attributed to the adventures through which the Rose had passed since her abduction.
Under this head, indeed, Mrs. Major did not anticipate great difficulty.
Similar cats are more similar than similar dogs.
They have not, as dogs have, the distinguishing marks of character and demonstrativeness.
In any event, as the masterly woman assured herself, she ran no peril even if her plot failed.
She would say she had found the cat, and if Mr. Marrapit were convinced it was not his Rose--well, she had made a mistake, that was all.
V.

Upon the morrow, playing her hand with masterly skill, Mrs. Major sought interview with Mr. Marrapit.
With telling dabs of her pocket handkerchief at her eyes, with telling sniffs of her masterly nose, she expressed the fear that she had outstayed his kindness in receiving her.
He had granted her request--he had let her come to Herons' Holt; but two days had passed and she had not found his Rose.
True, if she had longer she could more thoroughly search; but as an honest woman she must admit that she had been given her chance, had failed.
Upon a wailing note she ended: “I must go.”

“Cancel that intention,” Mr. Marrapit told her.
Her honesty smote this man.
Had he misjudged her?
She smothered a sniff in her handkerchief: “I must go.
I must go.
I have seen that you regard me with suspicion.
Oh, you have reason, I know; but I cannot bear it.”

“Remove that impression,” spoke Mr. Marrapit.
He _had_ misjudged this woman; he was convinced of it.
Mrs. Major gave her answer in the form of two smothered sniffs and a third that, eluding her handkerchief, escaped free and loud--a telling sniff that advertised her distress; wrung Mr. Marrapit's emotions.
He continued: “Mrs.
Major, at a future time we will discuss the painful affair to which you make reference.
At present I am too preoccupied by the calamity that has desolated my hearth.
Meanwhile, I suspend judgment.
I place suspicion behind me.
I regard you only as she whom my Rose loved.”

“Do you wish me to stay a little longer?” asked Mrs. Major, trembling.
“That is my wish.
Continue to prosecute your search.”

Trembling yet more violently Mrs. Major said: “I will stay.
I had not dared to suppose I might stop more than two days.
I brought nothing with me.
May I go to London to get clothes?
I will return to-morrow morning.”

“Why not to-night?”

“Early to-morrow would be more convenient.
I have other things to do in London.”

“To-morrow, then,” Mr. Marrapit agreed.
At the door Mrs. Major turned.
Her great success at this interview emboldened her to a second stroke.
“There is one other thing I would like to say, if I dared.”

“Be fearless.”

She plunged.
“If Heaven should grant that I may find the Rose, I implore you not to distress me by offering me the reward you are holding out.
I could not take it.
I know you can ill afford it.
Further than that, to have the joy of giving you back your Rose would be reward enough for me.
And to know that she was safe with you, though I--I should never see her again, that would make me happy till the end of my days.”

Her nobility smote Mr. Marrapit.
Cruelly, shamefully, he _had_ misjudged her.
Her handkerchief pressed to her eyes, very gently Mrs. Major closed the door; very soberly mounted the stairs.
Out of earshot, she walked briskly to her room; drew forth her diary; in a bold hand inscribed:

“_Absolutely certain shall stick._”

The masterly woman lunched in town.
CHAPTER II.
Mrs. Major Finds The Lock.
I.
By six o'clock Mrs. Major had all ready for her adventure.
In the little room at Angel Street she deposited a newly purchased basket; at eight o'clock started for Sussex Gardens.
Twice, while passing down the terrace at about nine, she had seen the cat she now pursued let out for what was doubtless its nightly run.
On each occasion she had observed the same order of events, and she judged them to be of regular occurrence.
Out from No.
506 had stepped a tall man, long-haired, soft-hatted, poetically bearded.
Behind him had followed the cat.
The cat had trotted across the road to the gardens; the tall man had walked slowly round the enclosure.
Returning, he had called.
The cat had walked soberly forth from the railings and the pair had re-entered the house.
II.
Matters fell this night precisely as the sapient woman had conjectured.
Shortly before nine she took up position against the railings in a dark patch that marked the middle point between two lamps, some doors above 506.
No tremor agitated her form; in action this woman was most masterly.
A church clock struck a full clear note, another and another.
The after-humming of the ninth had scarcely died when the blackness that lay beneath the fanlight of 506 was split by a thin rod of yellow light.
Instantly this widened, served for a moment to silhouette a tall figure, then vanished as the door slammed.
The tall figure stepped on to the pavement; a cat at its feet trod sedately across the road.
The tall figure turned; in a moment was meditatively pacing the pavement opposite where Mrs. Major stood.
Mrs. Major gave him twenty yards.
Then she hurried along the railings to where the cat had tripped.
Six feet inwards, delicately scratching the soil beneath a bush, she espied it.
The masterly woman pressed her face between the rails; stretched a snapping finger and thumb; in an intense voice murmured, “Tweetikins puss!”

Tweetikins puss continued thoughtfully to turn the soil.
This was a nicely mannered cat.
“Tweety little puss!” cooed Mrs. Major.
“Tweety pussikins!
puss, puss!”

Tweety pussikins turned to regard her.
Mrs. Major moistened her finger and thumb; snapped frantically.
“Puss, puss--tweety pussy!”

Tweety pussy advanced till the snapping fingers were within an inch of its nose.
“Pussikins, pussikins!” implored Mrs. Major.
Pussikins very deliberately seated itself; coiled its fine tail about its feet; regarded Mrs. Major with a sphinx-like air.
Mrs. Major pressed till the iron railings cut her shoulders.
She stretched the forefinger of her extended arm; at great peril of slipping forward and rasping her nose along the rails effected to scratch the top of the sphinx's head.
“Puss, puss!
Tweety, _tweety_ puss!”

By not so much as a blink did tweety puss stir a muscle.
Mrs. Major was in considerable pain.
Her bent legs were cramped; the railings bit her shoulder; her neck ached: “Tweety little puss!
Tweety puss!
Puss!
_Drat_ the beast!”

In great physical agony and in heightening mental distress--since time was fleeting and the cat as statuesque as ever,--Mrs. Major again dratted it twice with marked sincerity and a third time as a sharp sound advertised the splitting of a secret portion of her wear against the tremendous strain her unnatural position placed upon it.
Unable longer to endure the pain of her outstretched arm, she dropped her hand to earth; with a masterly effort resumed her smiling face and silky tone.
Repeating her endearing cooings, she scratched the soil, enticing to some hidden mystery.
The demon of curiosity impelled this cat's doom.
For a moment it eyed the scratching fingers; then stretched forward its head to investigation.
The time for gentle methods was gone.
Mrs. Major gripped the downy scruff of the doomed creature's neck; dragged the surprised animal forward; rudely urged it through the railings; tucked it beneath her cloak; sped down the road in the same direction that the tall figure had taken.
But where the tall figure had turned round the gardens Mrs. Major kept straight.
Along a main street, into a by-street, round a turning, across a square, up a terrace, over the Edgware Road--so into the bed-sitting-room at Angel Street.
III.
Speeding by train to Herons' Holt upon the following morning, beside her the basket wherein lay the key that was to open paradise, Mrs. Major slightly altered her plans.
It had been her intention at once to burst upon Mr. Marrapit with her prize--at once to put to desperate test whether or no he would accept it as the Rose.
But before Paltley Hill was reached the masterly woman had modified this order.
The cat she had abducted was so much the facsimile of the Rose that for the first time it occurred to her that, like the Rose, it might be valuable, and that a noisy hue and cry might be raised upon its loss.
If this so happened, and especially if Mr. Marrapit were doubtful that the cat was his Rose, it would be dangerous to let him know that she had made her discovery in London.
Supposing he heard that a London cat, similar to the Rose in appearance, were missing, and remembered that this cat--of which from the first he had had doubts--was filched from London?
That might turn success into failure.
The chances of such events were remote, but the masterly woman determined to run no risks.
She decided that on arrival at

Paltley Hill she would conceal her cat; on the morrow, starting out from Herons' Hill to renew her search, would find it and with it come bounding to the house.
As to where she should hide it she had no difficulty in determining.
She knew of but one place, and she was convinced she could not have known a better.
The ruined hut in the copse off the Shipley Road, whither in the dear, dead days beyond recall she had stolen for Old Tommish purposes, was in every way safe and suitable.
None visited there at ordinary times; now that the country-side was no longer being searched for the Rose save by herself, it was as safe as ever.
She would leave her cat there this day and night.
Upon this determination the remarkable woman acted; before proceeding to Herons' Holt secured her cat in that inner room of the hut where, but a few days previously, the Rose herself had lain.
When she reached the house a maid told her that Mr. Marrapit was closeted with young Mr. Wyvern.
IV.
During the afternoon Mrs. Major visited her cat, taking it milk.
That evening, Mary and Margaret being elsewhere together, she was able to enjoy a quiet hour with Mr. Marrapit.
He was heavily depressed: “A week has passed, Mrs. Major.
Something tells me I never again will see my Rose.
This day I have sent young Mr. Wyvern and Mr. Brunger after my nephew George.
The clue he claims to know is my last chance.
I have no faith in it.
Put not your trust--” Mr. Marrapit allowed a melancholy sigh to conclude his sentence.
This man had suffered much.
Mrs. Major clasped her hands.
“Oh, do not give up hope, Mr. Marrapit.
Something tells me you _will_ see her--soon, very soon.”

Mr. Marrapit sighed.
“You are always encouraging, Mrs. Major.”

“Something tells me that I have reason to be, Mr. Marrapit.
Last night I dreamed that the Rose was found.” The encouraging woman leaned forward; said impressively, “I dreamed that I found her.”

Mr. Marrapit did not respond to her tone.
Melancholy had this man in leaden grip.
“I lose hope,” he said.
“Man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward.
Do not trust in dreams.”

“Oh, but I _do_!” Mrs. Major said with girlish impulsiveness.
“I _do_.
I always have.
My dreams so often come true.
Do not lose hope, Mr. Marrapit.” She continued with a beautiful air of timidity: “Oh, Mr. Marrapit, I know I am only here on sufferance, but your careworn air emboldens me to suggest--it might keep your poor mind from thinking--a game of backgammon such as we used to play before--” She sighed.
“I should like it,” Mr. Marrapit answered.
Mrs. Major arranged the board; drew Mr. Marrapit's favourite chair to the table; rattled the dice.
After a few moves, “Oh, you're not beating me as you used to,” she said archly.
“I am out of practice,” Mr. Marrapit confessed.
Mrs. Major paused in the act of throwing her dice.
“Out of practice!
But surely Miss Humfray plays with you?”

“She does not.”

Mrs. Major gave a sigh that suggested more than she dared say.
She sighed again when the game was concluded.
Mr. Marrapit sat on.
“Quite like old times,” Mrs. Major murmured.
“Good night, Mr. Marrapit; and don't lose hope.
Remember my dream.”

“Quite like old times,” Mr. Marrapit murmured.
The masterly woman ascended the stairs rubbing her hands.
V.

Mrs. Major ate an excellent breakfast upon the following morning.
She was upon the very threshold of winning into paradise, but not a tremor of nervousness did she betray or feel.
This was a superb woman.
At eleven she left the house and took a walk--rehearsing the manner in which she had arranged to burst in upon Mr. Marrapit with the cat, checking again the arguments with which she would counter and lull any doubts he might raise.
At twelve she entered the hut.
Mrs. Major was in the very act of leaving the building, the cat beneath her arm, when a sound of voices and footsteps held her upon the threshold.
She listened; the sounds drew near.
She closed the door; the sounds, now loud, approached the hut.
She ran to the inner room; a hand was laid upon the outer latch.
She closed the door; applied her eye to a crack; George and Mary entered.
CHAPTER III.
Mrs. Major Gets The Key.
George carried a basket.
He laid it upon the floor.
Then he turned and kissed his Mary.
He put his arms about her; held her to him for a moment in a tremendous hug; pressed his lips to hers; held her away, drinking love from her pretty eyes; again kissed her and again hugged.
She gasped: “I shall crack in half in a minute if you will be so ridiculous.”

He laughed; let her free.
He led to the tottering bench that stood across the room, sat her there, and taking her little gloved hand patted it between his.
“Fine, Mary,” he said, “to see you again!
Fine!
It seems months!”

“Years,” Mary whispered, giving one of the patting hands a little squeeze.
“Years.
And you never sent me a line.
I've not had a word with you since you came up on the lawn that day and said you had passed your exam.
You simply _bolted_ off, you know.”

“You got my letter, though, this morning?” George said.
He dropped her hand; fumbled in his pocket for his pipe.
He was becoming a little nervous at the matter before him.
Mary told him: “Well, that was _nothing_.
It was such a _frantic_ letter!
What is all the mystery about?”

“I'll tell you the whole story.” George got from the bench and began to pace, filling his pipe.
With a tender little smile Mary watched her George's dear face.
Then, as he still paced, lit his pipe, gustily puffed, but did not speak, a tiny troubled pucker came between her eyes.
There was a suspicion of a silly little tremor in her voice when at last she asked: “Anything wrong, old man?”

George inhaled a vast breath of smoke; let it go in a misty cloud.
With a quick action he laid his pipe upon the table; sprang to her side.
His right arm he put about her, in his left hand he clasped both hers.
“Nothing wrong,” he cried brightly; “not a bit wrong.
Mary, it's a game, a plot, a dickens of a game.”

“Well, tell me,” she said, beaming.
“It wants your help.”

“Well, tell me, tell me, stupid.”

“You will help?”

“Of course, if I can.
Oh, do tell me, Georgie!”

“I'll show you, that's quicker.”

He sprang to the basket; unstrapped the lid; threw it back.
A most exquisite orange head upreared.
A queenly back arched.
A beautiful figure stepped forth.
“_George!_” Mary cried.
“George!
_The Rose!_ You've found her!”

George gave a nervous little crack of laughter.
“I never lost her.”

“Never lost her!
No, but she's been--”

“I've had her all the time!”

“_All the_--”

“I took her!”

“You _took_ her!
_You_--took her!
Oh, George, speak sense!
Whatever can you mean?” Mary had jumped to her feet when first the Rose stepped forth; now was close to her George--face a little white, perplexed; hands clasped.
He cried: “Sweetest dove of a Mary, don't talk like that.
Sit down and I'll tell you.”

“But what have you done?--what have you _done?_”

The true woman was in that question.
How they jostle us, these women, with their timid little flutterings when we are trying to put a case before them in our manlike way!--first spoiling their palate with all the sugar, so that they may not taste the powder.
“I'll tell you what I've done if you'll only sit down.”

She went to the seat.
“Now laugh, Mary.
You simply must laugh.
I can't tell you while you look like that.
Laugh, or I shall tickle you.”

She laughed merrily--over her first bewilderment.
“But, Georgie, it's something fearful that you've done, isn't it?”

He sat beside her; took her hands.
“It's terrific.
Look here.
From the beginning.
When I told old Marrapit I'd passed my exam.
I asked for that 500 pounds--you know--to start us.”

She nodded.
“He refused.
He got in an awful state at the bare idea.
I asked him to lend it--he got worse.
Mary, he simply would not give or advance a penny: you know what that meant?”

The dejected droop of her mouth gave answer.
“Well, then, I concocted a plot.
Old Wyvern helped me--Professor Wyvern, you know.
I thought that if I took his cat, his beloved Rose, and lay low with her for a bit, he would--”

“Oh, _George!_”

“Well?”

“Nothing--finish.”

“--He would be certain to offer a reward.
And I guessed he wouldn't mind what he paid.
So I thought I'd take the cat and hang on till he offered L500, or till I thought he'd be so glad to get the Rose back that he'd do what I want out of pure gratitude.
Then I'd bring it back and get the money--say I'd found it, you see, and--and--wait a bit--for heaven's sake don't speak yet.” George saw his Mary was bursting with words; as he judged the look in her eyes they were words he had reason to fear.
Shirking their hurt, he hurried along.
“Don't speak yet.
Get the money, and then we'd save up and pay him back and then tell him.
There!”

She burst out: “But, George--how _could_ you?
Oh, it's wrong--it's _awful!_ Why, do you know what people would call you?
They'd say you're a--yes, they'd say you're a--”

He snatched the terrible word from her lips with a kiss.
“They'd say I was a fool if I let Marrapit do me out of what is my own.
That's the point, Mary.
It's my money.
I'm only trying to get what is my own.
I felt all along you would see that; otherwise--” He hesitated.
He was in difficulties.
Manlike, he suddenly essayed to shoot the responsibility upon the woman.
“--Otherwise I wouldn't have done it,” he ended.
His Mary had the wit to slip from the net, to dig him a vital thrust with the trident: “If you thought that, why didn't you tell me?”

The thrust staggered him; set him blustering: “Tell you!
Tell you!
How could I tell you?
I did it on the spur of the moment.”

“You could have written.
Oh, Georgie, it's wrong.
It _is_ wrong.”

He took up the famous sex attack.
“Wrong!
Wrong!
That's just like a woman to say that!
You won't listen to reason.
You jump at a thing and shut your eyes and your ears.”

“I _will_ listen to reason.
But you haven't _got_ any reason.
If you had, why didn't you tell me before you did it?”

He continued the sex assault; flung out a declamatory hand.
“There you go!
Why didn't I tell you?
I've told you why.
I tell you I did it on the spur of the moment--”

But she still struggled.
“Yes, that's just it.
You didn't think.
Now that you are thinking you must see it in its proper light.
You _must_ see it's wrong.”

“I don't.
I don't in the least.”

“Well, why are you getting in such a state about it?”

“I'm not getting in a state!”

“You are.” His Mary fumbled at her waist-belt.
“You are.
You're--saying--all sorts--of--things.
You--said--I--was--just--like--a--woman.” Out came this preposterous Mary's pocket handkerchief; into it went Mary's little nose.
George sprang to her.
“Oh, Mary!
Oh, I say, don't cry, old girl!”

The nose came out for a minute, a very shiny little nose.
“I can't help crying.
This is an--an _awful_ business.” The shiny little nose disappeared again.
George tried to pull away the handkerchief, tried to put his face against hers.
A bony little shoulder poked obstinately up and prevented him.
He burst out desperately.
“Oh, damn!
Oh, what a beast I am!
I'm always making you cry.
Oh, damn!
Oh, Mary!
I can't do anything right.
I've had an awful time these days--and I was longing to see you,--and now I've called you names and been a brute.”

His Mary gulped the tears that were making the shiny little nose every minute more shiny.
Never could she bear to hear her George accuse himself.
Upon a tremendous sniff, “You haven't been a brute,” she said, “--a bit.
It's my--my fault for annoying you when I don't properly understand.
Perhaps I don't understand.”

He put an arm about her.
“You don't, Mary.
Really and truly you don't.
Let me tell you.
Don't say a word till I've done.
I'll tell you first why I've brought the Rose here.
You see, I can't keep her anywhere else.
I'm being chased about all over England.
Bill and that infernal detective are after me now, and I simply must hide the beastly cat where it will be safe.
Well, it's safest here--here, right under their noses, where nobody will ever look because everyone thinks it miles away by now.
I can't stop near it, because I must be away on this clue they think I've got--especially now I've got mixed up with the detectives: see?
So I want you just to come up from the house every day and feed the cat.
You'll be perfectly safe, and it can't be for very long.
You would do that, wouldn't you?
Oh, Mary, think what it means to us!”

She polished the shiny little nose: “I'd do anything that would help you.
But, Georgie, it's not _right_; it's _wrong_.
Oh, it is wrong!
I don't care _what_ you say.”

“But you haven't heard what I've got to say.”

“I have.
I've been listening for hours.”

“No, no, Mary.
No, I haven't explained yet.
You're too serious about it.
It isn't a bit serious.
It's only a frightful rag.
And nobody will suffer, because he'll get his money back.
And, think--think what it means.
Now, do listen!”

She listened, and her George poured forth a flood of arguments that were all mixed and tangled with love.
She could not separate the two.
This argument that he was right was delectably sugared with the knowledge that the thing was done for her; that delicious picture of the future, when it was swallowed, proved to be an argument in favour of his purpose.
Love and argument, argument and love--she could not separate them, and they combined into a most exquisite sweetmeat.
The arm her George had about her was a base advantage over her.
How doubt her George was right when against her she could feel his heart!
How be wiser than he when both her hands were in that dear brown fist?
She was almost won when with a “So there you are!” he concluded.
She had been won if she had much longer remained beneath the drug of his dear, gay, earnest words.
But when he ceased she came to.
The little awakening sigh she gave was the little fluttering sigh of a patient when the anesthetic leaves the senses clear.
She looked at her George.
Horrible to dim the sparkling in those dear eyes, radiant with excitement, with love.
Yet she did it.
The goody-goody little soul of her put its hands about the little weakness of her and held it tight.
She said: “I do, _do_ see what you mean, Georgie.
But I do, _do_ think it's wrong.”

And then the little hands and the brown fist changed places.
For she put one hand below the fist, and with the other patted as she gave her little homily--goody-goody little arguments, Sunday-school little arguments, mother-and-child little arguments.
And very timidly she concluded: “You are not angry, Georgie, are you?”

This splendid George of hers gave her a tremendous kiss.
“You're a little saint; you're a little idiot; you're a little angel; you're a little goose,” he told her.
“But I love you all the more for it, although I'd like to shake you.
I _would_ like to shake you, Mary.
You're ruining the finest joke that ever was tried; and you're ruining our only chance of marrying; and goodness only knows what's going to happen now.”

She laughed ever so happily.
It was intoxicating to bend this dear George; intoxicating to have the love that came of bending him.
“But I _am_ right, am I not?” she asked.
George said: “Look here, saint and goose.
I'm simply not going to chuck the thing and all our happiness like this.
I'll make a bargain.
Saint and goose, we'll say you are right, but you shall have one night to think over it.
One night.
And this afternoon you will go to Professor Wyvern and tell him everything and hear what he thinks about it--what an outsider thinks: see?
Yes, that's it.
Don't even spend a night over it.
Have a talk with Professor Wyvern, and if you still think I ought to chuck it, write to me at once, and to-morrow I'll come down and creep in unto my uncle with the cat, and say: 'Uncle, I have sinned.'
There, Mary, that's agreed, isn't it?”

“That's agreed,” she joined.
“Yes, that's fair.”

He looked at his watch.
“I must cut.
I must catch the one-thirty train.
I must calm Bill and the 'tec.
in case you--Mary, _do_ weigh whatever Wyvern says, won't you?”

She promised; gave her George her hope that the Professor would make her see differently.
“That's splendid of you!” George cried.
“Saint and goose, that's sweet of you.
Mary, I'm sure he will.
Look here, I must fly; come half-way to the station.
The cat's all right here.
Pop up and feed her this afternoon.”

They pressed the door behind them; hurried down the path.
It was precisely as they turned from the lane into the high-road, that Mrs. Major, a cat beneath her arm, went bounding wildly through the copse towards Herons' Holt.
CHAPTER IV.
George Has A Shot At Paradise.
I.
Two hours after George, leaving his Mary near Paltley Hill railway station, had got back to his inn at Temple Colney, a very agitated young man booked from Temple Colney to Paltley Hill and was now speeding between them in the train.
He had the carriage to himself.
Sometimes he sat, hands deep in pockets, legs thrust before him, staring with wide and frightened eyes at the opposite seat.
Sometimes he paced wildly from door to door, chin sunk on breast, in his eyes still that look of frantic apprehension.
Sometimes he would snatch from his pocket a telegram; glare at it; pucker his brows over it; groan over it.
George was this feverish young man.
On his table in his room at the inn he had found this telegram awaiting him.
He had broken the envelope, had read, and immediately a tickling feeling over his scalp had sent a dreadful shiver through his frame:

“_Return at once.
Cat found.--Marrapit._”

He had plumped into a chair.
For a space the capacity for thought was gone.
In his brain was only a heavy drumming that numbed.
Beneath the window a laden cart went thumping by--thump, thump; thump, thump--cat found; cat found.
The cart drubbed away and was lost.
Then the heavy ticking of the clock edged into his senses--tick, tock; tick, tock--cat found; cat found.
Then thought came.
Cat found!--then all was lost.
Cat found!--then some damned prowling idiot had chanced upon the hut.
This miserable George had felt certain that Professor Wyvern's arguments would overcome his Mary's scruples.
That little meeting with his Mary had made him the more desperately anxious for success so that he might win her and have her.
And now--cat found!--all over.
Cat found!
His pains for nothing!
Then came the support of a hope, and to this, hurrying back to the station, speeding now in the train, most desperately he clung.
The Rose, he struggled to assure himself, had not been found at all.
It was impossible that anyone had been to the hut.
Some idiot had found a cat that answered to the Rose's description, and had telegraphed the discovery to his uncle; or someone had brought a cat to his uncle and his uncle was himself temporarily deluded.
Wildly praying that this might be so, George leaped from the train at Paltley Hill; went rushing to the hut.
Outside, for full ten minutes he dared not push the door.
What if he saw no Rose?
What if all were indeed lost?
He braced himself; pushed; entered.
At once he gave a whoop, and another whoop, and a third.
He snapped his fingers; cavorted through the steps of a wild dance that considerably alarmed the noble cat that watched him.
For there was the Rose!
II.
When George had indulged his transports till he was calmer, he took a moment's swift thought to decide his action.
Since someone was bouncing a spurious Rose on his uncle, he must delay, he decided, no longer--must dash in with the true Rose at once.
Surely his uncle's delight would be sufficient to arouse in him the gratitude that would produce the sum necessary for Runnygate!
Previously, when he had reflected upon the plan he should follow on restoring the cat, he had been a little alarmed at the difficulties he foresaw.
Chief among them was the fact that his uncle, and the detective, and heaven knew who else besides, would require a plausible and circumstantial story of how the Rose had been found--might wish to prosecute the thief.
How to invent this story had caused George enormous anxiety.
He shuddered whenever he thought upon it; had steadily put it behind him till the matter must be faced.
But this and all other difficulties he now sent flying.
The relief of freedom from the badgering he had endured since he abducted the Rose; the enormous relief of finding that the Rose was not, after all, gone from the hut; the tearing excitement of the thought that he had his very fingers upon success--these combined to make him reckless of truth and blind to doubts.
He relied upon his uncle's transports of delight on recovering the Rose--he felt that in the delirious excitement of that joy everything must go well and unquestioned with him who had brought it about.
As to his Mary's scruples--time enough for them when the matter was done.
This was George's feeling at the end of his rapid cogitation.
A heartless chuckle he gave as he thought of Bill and Mr. Brunger at the inn, closely dogging the landlord; then he seized the cat and in a second was bounding through the copse to Herons' Holt as Mrs. Major, a short space ago, had bounded before him.
CHAPTER V.

Of Twin Cats: Of Ananias And Of Sapphira.
I.
The maid who opened the door told George that the master awaited him in the study.
Nothing of George's excitement had left him during the rush down to the house.
His right arm tucked about the cat he carried, with his left hand impulsively he pushed open the door; with a spring eagerly entered.
Even as he stepped over the threshold the bubbling words that filled his mouth melted; did not shape.
In the atmosphere of the apartment there was that sinister element of some unseen force which we detect by medium of the almost atrophied sense that in dogs we call instinct.
As dogs will check and grow suspicious in the presence of death that they cannot see, but feel, so my George checked and was struck apprehensive by the sudden sensation of an invisible calamity.
The quick glance he gave increased the sudden chill of his spirits.
He saw Mr. Marrapit standing against the mantelshelf--dressing-gowned, hands behind back, face most intensely grim; his glance shifted and he froze, for it rested upon Mrs. Major--hidden by a table from the waist downwards, prim, bolt upright in a chair, face most intensely grim; his eyes passed her and now goggled in new bewilderment, for they took in his Mary--seated upon the extreme edge of the sofa, a white tooth upon lower lip, face most intensely woebegone.
George stood perfectly still.
Like the full, deep note of a huge bell, Mr. Marrapit's voice came booming through the fearful atmosphere.
“Well?” boomed Mr. Marrapit.
The cat beneath George's arm wriggled.
Boom and wriggle touched George back to action from the fear into which the invisible something and the fearful panorama of faces had struck him.
After all--let have happened what might have happened--he had the cat!
He swung the creature round into his hands; outstretched it.
He took a step forward.
“Uncle!” he cried, “uncle, I have found the Rose!”

“Hem!” said Mrs. Major on a short jerk.
From Mary there came a violent double sniff.
George stood perfectly still; the unseen horror he felt to be rushing upon him, but it remained invisible.
With considerably less confidence he repeated:

“The Rose, uncle.”

“Hem!” said Mrs. Major on a yet shorter jerk; from Mary a double sniff yet more violent.
Mr. Marrapit raised a white hand.
“Hark!” said Mr. Marrapit.
Alarmed, his nerves unstrung, with straining ears George listened.
The tense atmosphere made him ajump for outward sounds.
“Hark!” boomed Mr. Marrapit; lowered the warning hand; at George directed a long finger.
“Are you not afraid that you will hear upon the threshold the footsteps of the young men who will come in, wind you up, and carry you out?”

“What on earth--?” George asked.
Mr. Marrapit poked the extended finger towards him.
“Ananias!” he boomed.
He poked at my quivering Mary.
“Sapphira!”

“Hem!” said Mrs. Major.
“Hem!”

George recovered.
“Is this a joke?” he asked.
“I tell you--look for yourself--I have found the Rose.”

Mr. Marrapit stooped to Mrs. Major's lap, hidden by the table.
With a most queenly creature in his arms he stood upright.
“Here is the Rose,”  said he.
Instantly George forgot all that had immediately passed.
Instantly he remembered that a bogus Rose was what he fully expected to see.
Instantly fear fled.
Instantly assurance returned.
In a full and confident note, “Uncle,” he said, “you have been deceived!”

His words let loose a torrent upon him.
Mr. Marrapit with one arm clasped to his breast the cat he had raised from Mrs. Major's lap.
Alternately raising and lowering the other hand, his white hair seeming to stream, his eyes flashing, he took on, to George's eyes, the appearance of an enraged prophet bellowing over the cities of the Plain.
“I _have_ been deceived!” he cried.
“You are right.
Though you have the forked tongue of an adder, yet you speak truly.
I have been deceived.
Woe is me for I have been most wickedly deceived by those who eat of my bread, who lie beneath my roof.
I have cherished vipers in my bosom, and they have stung me.
Bitterly have I been deceived.”

He paused.
A low moan from Mrs. Major, handkerchief to eyes, voiced the effect of his speech upon her; in racking sniffs Mary's emotion found vent.
But upon George the outburst had a cooling result--he was certain of his ground.
He said solidly: “That's all rot.”

“Rot!” cried Mr. Marrapit.
“Yes, rot.
You work yourself up into such a state when you get like this, that you don't know what you're talking about--vipers and all that kind of thing.
When you've calmed down and understand things, perhaps you'll be sorry.
I tell you you've been deceived.
That's not the Rose you've got hold of.
This is the Rose.
Someone has made a fool of you.
Someone--”

Between two violent sniffs, “Oh, George, don't, don't!” came from his Mary.
Startled, George checked.
“Monster, be careful,” said Mr. Marrapit.
“Beware how much deeper you enmire yourself in the morass of your evil.
Put down that miserable creature you hold.
I place Mrs. Major's Rose beside it.
Look upon them.”

George looked.
With staring eyes he gazed upon the two cats.
With arched tails they advanced to exchange compliments, and the nearer they stood together the less Rose-like became the cat he had brought into the room.
For the cat that Mr. Marrapit had produced--Mrs. Major's cat, as he called it--was the Rose herself; could be none other, and none other (when thus placed alongside) could be she.
Struck unconscious to his surroundings by this appalling spectacle, George slowly stooped towards the cats as though hypnotised by the orange coats.
His eyes goggled further from his head; the blood went thumping in his temples.
He was aghast and horror-struck with the stupefaction that comes of effort to disbelieve the eyes.
But he did disbelieve his eyes.
How possibly trust them when from the Rose's very bed he had taken the Rose herself and held her till now when he produced her?
He did disbelieve his eyes.
He gave Mrs. Major's cat a careless pat.
By an effort throwing a careless tone into his voice, “A very good imitation,” he said.
“Not at all unlike the Rose!”

Mr. Marrapit became an alarming sight.
He intook an enormous breath that swelled him dangerously.
He opened his lips and the air rushed out with roaring sound.
Again he inspired, raised his clenched hands above his head, stood like some great tottering image upon the brink of internal explosion.
As upon a sudden thought, he checked the bursting words that threatened from his lips; allowed his pent-up breath to escape inarticulate; to his normal size and appearance shrank back when it was gone.
With an air of ebbing doubt, “Not at all unlike?” he questioned.
George replied briskly.
He forced himself to take confidence, though every moment made yet more difficult the struggle to disbelieve what his eyes told him.
“Not at all unlike,” he affirmed.
“Very similar, in fact.
Yes, I should say very similar indeed.”

Still in the same tone of one who is being reluctantly convinced, Mr. Marrapit again played Echo's part: “Very similar indeed?
You grant that?”

“Certainly,” George admitted frankly.
“Certainly.
I do not wonder you were mistaken.”

“Nor I,” Mr. Marrapit smoothly replied.
“Indeed, in Mrs. Major's cat I detect certain signs which my Rose has long borne but which she has no longer, if the cat you bring is she?”

“Eh?” said George.
“Certain signs,” Mr. Marrapit repeated, with the smoothness of flowing oil, “which I recollect in my Rose.
The mark, for example, where her left ear was abrased by Mr. Wyvern's blood-thirsty bull-terrier.”

George stooped to the cats.
Pointing, he cried triumphantly: “Yes, and there is the mark!”

“Yes,” Mr. Marrapit pronounced mildly.
“Yes, but you are now looking at Mrs. Major's cat.”

“Hem!” said Mrs. Major.
“Hem!”

Like one who has stepped upon hot iron George started back, stared aghast.
A further “hem,” with which a chuckle was mixed, came from Mrs. Major; from my collapsed Mary upon the edge of the sofa a sniff that was mingled groan and sob.
George put a hand to his head.
This young man's senses were ajostle and awhirl.
Well he remembered that mark which by disastrous blunder he had indicated on Mrs. Major's cat; vainly he sought it on his own.
Yet his was the Rose.
Was this a nightmare, then, and no true thing?
He put his hand to his head.
“Looking at Mrs. Major's cat,” repeated Mr. Marrapit, his tone smooth as the trickle of oil.
George fought on.
“Quite so.
Quite so.
I know that.
That is what makes it so extraordinary--that this cat which you call Mrs. Major's and think is the Rose should have the very mark that our Rose had.”

“But our Rose has not--if that is she.”

“Ah!
not now,” George said impressively.
“Not now.
It healed.
Healed months ago.
Don't you remember my saying one morning, 'The Rose's ear is quite healed now'?”

“I do not, sir,” snapped Mr. Marrapit, with alarming sharpness.
“Oh!” said George.
“Oh!”

“Hem!” fired Mrs. Major.
“Hem!
Hem!”

“That tail,” spoke Mr. Marrapit, a sinister hardness now behind the oiliness.
“Mark those tails.”

George marked.
To this young man's disordered mind the room took on the appearance of a forest of waving tails.
“Well?” rapped Mr. Marrapit.
“You note those tails?
Mrs. Major's cat has a verdant tail, a bush-like tail.
Yours has a rat tail.
Do you recollect my pride in the luxuriousness of the Rose's tail?”

George blundered along the path he had chosen.
“Formerly,” he said, “not latterly.
Latterly, if you remember, there was a remarkable falling off in the Rose's tail.
Her tail moulted.
It shed hairs.
I remember worrying over it.
I remember--”

A voice from the sofa froze him.
“Oh, George, don't, don't!” moaned his Mary.
Recovering his horror, he turned stiffly upon her.
“If you mean me, Miss Humfray, you forget yourself.
I do not understand you.
Kindly recollect that I have another name.”

The hideous frown he bent upon his Mary might well have advertised the sincerity of his rebuke.
He faced Mr. Marrapit, blundered on.
“I remember noticing how thin the Rose's tail was getting.” He gathered confidence, pushed ahead.
“You have forgotten those little points, sir.
Upset by your loss you have jumped at the first cat like the Rose that you have seen.” He took new courage, became impressive.
“You are making a fearful mistake, sir--an awful mistake.
A mistake at which you will shudder when you look back--”

“Incredible!”

Mr. Marrapit, swelling as a few moments earlier he had swollen, this time burst to speech.
He raised his clenched fists; in immense volume of sound exploded.
“Incredible!”

George misinterpreted; was shaken, but hurried on.
“It is.
I admit it.
It is an incredible likeness.
But look again, sir.”

Mr. Marrapit gave instead a confused scream.
Alarmed, George made as if to plunge on with further protests.
“George!
George!” from his Mary checked him.
Furious, he turned upon her; and in that moment Mr. Marrapit, recovering words, turned to Mrs. Major.
“As you have restored my treasure to my house, Mrs. Major, so now silence this iniquitous man by telling him what you have told me.
I implore speed.
Silence him.
Utterly confound him.
Stop him from further perjury before an outraged Creator rains thunderbolts upon this roof.”

With a telling “Hem!” the masterly woman cleared for action.
“I will, Mr. Marrapit,” she bowed.
She murmured “Rosie, Rosie, ickle Rosie!” The cat Mr. Marrapit had lifted from her lap sprang back to that enticing cushion.
Gently stroking its queenly back, to the soft accompaniment of its majestic purr, in acid-tipped accents she began to speak.
She pointed at the cat that now sat at George's crime-steeped boots.
“When I was out this morning I found that cat in a little copse on the Shipley Road.
At first I thought it was our darling Rose.
Suddenly I heard voices.
I did not wish to be seen, because, dear Mr. Marrapit, if it was the Rose I had found, I wanted to bring it to you alone--to be the first to make you happy.
So I slipped into a disused hut that stands there.
Footsteps approached the door and I went into an inner room.”

Mrs. Major paused; shot a stabbing smile at George.
And now my miserable George realised.
Now, visible at last, there rushed upon him, grappled him, strangled him, the sinister something whose presence he had scented on entering the apartment.
No sound came from this stricken man.
He could not speak, nor move, nor think.
Rooted he remained; dully gazed at the thin lips whence poured the flood that engulfed and that was utterly to wreck him.
The masterly woman continued.
She indicated the rooted figure in the middle of the room, the collapsed heap upon the sofa's edge.
“Those two entered.
He had a basket.
Oh, what were my feelings when out of it he took our darling Rose!”

For the space of two minutes the masterly woman advertised the emotions she had suffered by burying her face in the Rose's coat; rocking gently.
Emerging, she gulped her agitation; proceeded.
“I need not repeat again all the dreadful story I heard, Mr. Marrapit?
Surely I need not?”

“You need not,” Mr. Marrapit told her.
“You need not.”

With a masterly half-smile, expressive of gratitude through great suffering, Mrs. Major thanked him.
“Indeed,” she went on, “I did not hear the whole of it.
It was so dreadful, I was so horrified, that I think I fainted.
Yes, I fainted.
But I heard them discuss how he had stolen the Rose so they might marry on the reward when it was big enough.
He had kept the darling till then; now it was her turn to take charge of it--”

Mrs. Major ceased with a jerk, drew in her legs preparatory to flight.
For the rooted figure had sprung alarmingly to life.
George would not have his darling Mary blackened.
He took a stride to Mrs. Major; his pose threatened her.
“That's untrue!” he thundered.
“Ho!” exclaimed Mrs. Major.
“Ho!
A liar to my face!
Ho!”

“And you are a liar,” George stormed, “when you say--”

“Silence!” commanded Mr. Marrapit.
“Do not anger heaven yet further.
Can you still deny--?”

“No!” George said very loudly.
“No!
No!
I deny nothing.
But that woman's a liar when she says Miss Humfray discussed the business with me, or that it was Miss Humfray's turn to take the damned cat.
Miss Humfray knew nothing about it till I told her.
When she heard she said it was wrong and tried to make me take the cat back to you.”

In his wrath George had advanced close to Mrs. Major.
He stretched a violent finger to an inch from her nose.
“That's true, isn't it?
Have the grace to admit that.”

Indomitable of purpose, the masterly woman pressed back her head as far as the chair would allow, tightened her lips.
The violent finger followed.
“Say it's true!” George boiled.
His Mary implored: “Oh, George, don't, don't!”

The furious young man flamed on to her.
“Be quiet!”

Mr. Marrapit began a sound.
The furious young man flamed to him: “You be quiet, too!” He thrust the dreadful finger at Mrs. Major.
“Now speak the truth.
Had Miss Humfray anything to do with it?”

This tremendous George had temporary command of the room.
The masterly woman for once quailed.
“I didn't hear that part,” she said.
George drew in the fearful finger.
“That's as good as the truth--from you.” He rounded upon Mr. Marrapit.
“You understand that.
This has been my show.”

“A blackguard show,” pronounced Mr. Marrapit.
“A monstrous and an impious show.
A--”

“I don't want to hear that.
Whatever it is you are the cause of it.
If you had done your duty with my mother's money--”

A figure passed the open French windows along the path.
Mr. Marrapit shouted “Fletcher!” The gardener entered.
“But you've betrayed your trust,” George shouted.
He liked the fine phrase and repeated it.
“You've betrayed your trust!”

Mr. Marrapit assumed his most collected air.
“Silence.
Silence, man of sin.
Leave the house.
Return thanks where thanks are due if I do not hound the law upon you.
Take that girl.
That miserable cat take.
Hence!”

Mary got to her feet, put a hand on her George's arm.
“Do come, dear.”

The wild young man shook her off.
“I'll go when it pleases me!” he shouted at Mr. Marrapit.
“You shall be arrested,” Mr. Marrapit returned.
He addressed Mary.
“Place that cat in that basket Carry it away.”

George stood, heaving, panting, boiling for effective words, while his Mary did as bade.
Awful visions of her George, fettered between policemen, trembled her pretty fingers.
At last she had the basket strapped, raised it.
“Come, George,” she said; and to Mr. Marrapit, “I'm so sorry, Mr. Marrapit.
I--”

It gave her furious George a vent.
“Sorry!
What are you sorry about?
What have you done?” He roared over to Mrs. Major: “What other lies have you been telling?” He lashed himself at Mr. Marrapit.
“Set the law on me?
I jolly well hope you will.
It will all come out then how you've behaved--how you've treated me.
How you've betrayed--”

“Fletcher,” Mr. Marrapit interrupted, “remove that man.
Take him out.
Thrust him from the house.”

“Me?” said Mr. Fletcher.
“Me thrust him?
I'm a gardener, I am; not a--”

“Duty or dismissal,” pronounced Mr. Marrapit.
“Take choice.” He turned to the window.
“Come, Mrs. Major.”

George dashed for him.
“You're not going till I've done with you!”

Violence was in his tone, passion in his face.
Alarmed, “Beware how you touch me!” called Mr. Marrapit; caught Mr. Fletcher, thrust him forward.
“Grapple him!” cried Mr. Marrapit.
Mr. Fletcher was violently impelled against George; to save a fall clutched him.
“Don't make a scene, Mr. George,” he implored.
George pushed him away.
Mr. Fletcher trod back heavily upon Mr. Marrapit's foot.
Mr. Marrapit screamed shrilly, plunged backwards into a cabinet, overturned it, sat heavily upon its debris.
A laugh overcame George's fury.
He swung on his heel; called “Come” to his Mary; stalked from the house.
As they passed through the gate, “Oh, Georgie!” his Mary breathed.
“Oh, Georgie!”

He raged on to her: “What on earth made you say you were sorry?
You've no spirit, Mary!
No spirit!”

The tremendous young man stalked ahead with huge strides.
*       *       *       *       *

In deep melancholy, sore beneath the correction Mr. Marrapit had heaped upon him, Mr. Fletcher wandered from the study; turned as he reached the path.
“Me grapple him!” said Mr. Fletcher.
“Me a craven!
Me thrust him from the house!
It's 'ard--damn 'ard.
I'm a gardener, I am; not a Ju-jitsu.”

CHAPTER VI.
Agony In Meath Street.
I.
Silent, gloom-ridden, my sniffing Mary, my black-browed George laboured to the station.
Silent they sat upon a bench waiting the London train.
George bought his Mary a piece of chocolate from the automatic machine; she was a forlorn picture as with tiny nibbles she ate it, tears in her pretty eyes.
In the restaurant George bought himself a huge cigar.
This man was a desperate spectacle as with huge puffs he smoked, hands deep in pockets, legs thrust straight, brows horribly knitted.
They had no words.
The train came in.
George found an empty compartment; helped his poor Mary to a corner; roughly dumped the cat-basket upon the rack; moodily plumped opposite his Mary.
They had no words.
It was as the train moved from the third stop that Mary, putting a giant sniff upon her emotions, asked her George: “Wher--where are we going, dear?”

It was not until the fifth stop that George made answer.
“Those Battersea digs,” he told her.
They had no words.
At Queen's Road station gloomily they alighted; silently laboured to the house of Mrs. Pinking.
George answered her surprise.
“Miss Humfray will have these rooms again, Mrs. Pinking, if you will be so kind; and I--” He checked.
“Could you let us have some tea, Mrs. Pinking?
Afterwards I'll have a talk with you.
We've got into a--We're very tired.
If you could just let us have some tea, then I'll explain.”

In silence they ate and drank.
George was half turned from the table, gloomily gazing from the window.
Tiny sniffs came from his Mary; he had no words for her; looked away.
But presently there was a most dreadful choking sound.
He sprang around.
Most painfully his Mary was spluttering over a cup of tea.
With trembling hands she put down the cup; her face was red, convulsively working.
George half rose to her.
“Don't cry, darling Mary-kins.
Don't cry.”

She set down the cup; swallowed; gasped, “I'm not crying--I'm la-laughing,” and into a pipe of gayest mirth she went.
Gloom gathered its sackcloth skirts; scuttled from the room.
George roared with laughter; rocked and roared again.
When he could get a catch upon his mirth there was the clear pipe of his Mary's glee, clear, compelling, setting him off again.
When she would gasp for breath there was her dear George, head in those brown hands, shaking with tremendous laughter--and she must start again.
She gasped: “George!
If you could have seen yourself standing there telling those awful stories--!”

He gasped: “When I mistook the cats--!”

She gasped: “Mr.
Marrapit's face--!”

He gasped: “Mrs.
Major's--!”

The exhaustion of their mirth gave them pause at last.
George wiped his running eyes; Mary tremendously blew her little nose, patted her gold hair where it eagerly straggled.
“I feel better after that,” George said.
She told him, “So do I--heaps.
It's no good being miserable over what is past, is it, dear?”

“Not a bit; not the slightest.
Come and sit on the sofa and let's see where we are.” She put that golden head upon his manly shoulder; he fetched his right arm about her; she nursed her hands upon the brown fist that came into her lap; that other brown hand he set upon the three.
Together they viewed their prospects--gloomy pictures.
“But we're fairly in the cart,” George summed up.
“We are, you know.”

His ridiculous Mary gave him that lovers' ridiculous specific.
“We've got each other,” she told him, snuggling to him.
George kissed her.
He fumbled in his pockets.
“I've got just about three pounds--over from what Marrapit gave me for the clue-hunting.
I say, Mary, it's pretty awful.”

She snuggled the closer.
Early evening, tip-toeing through the window, was drawing her dusky hangings about the room when at length George withdrew the brown hands; stirred.
II.
Upon a little sigh Mary let go the string that held the dreams she had been dreaming.
Like a great gay bundle of many-coloured toy balloons suddenly released, they soared away.
She came to the desperate present; noted her George filling his pipe.
He got upon his legs; paced the floor, puffing.
It was his characteristic pose when he was most tremendous.
She watched this tremendous fellow adoringly.
He told her: “I've settled it all, Marykins.
I've fixed it all up.
We'll pull through right as rain.” He caught the admiring glance in his Mary's eye; inhaled and gusted forth a huge breath of smoke; repeated the fine sentence.
“We'll pull through right as rain.”

“Dear George!” she softly applauded.
He pushed ahead.
“There's this locum tenens I was going to take up in the North.
I haven't offed that yet--haven't refused it, I mean.
Well, I shall take it.
The screw's pretty rotten, but up in the North--in the North, you know--well, it's not like London.
It's cheap--frightfully cheap.
You can live on next to nothing--”

She pushed out the irritating, practical, womanish side of her.
“_Can_ you?
How do you _know_, Georgie?”

We men hate these pokes at our knowledge; women will not understand generalisations.
George jerked back: “How do I _know_?
Oh, don't interrupt like that, Mary.
Everybody knows that living is cheap in the North--in the _North_.”

“Of course,” she excused herself.
“Of course, dear, I see.”

“Well, where was I?
Frightfully cheap, so the screw won't matter.
I'll take the job, dearest.
I'll take it for next month.
And--listen--we'll marry and go up there together and live in some ripping little rooms.
There!”

She was flaming pink; could only breathe: “Georgie, _dear!_”

He stopped his pacing to give her a squeezing hug, a kiss upon the top of the gold hair.
Then he went through the steps of a wild dance.
“Marry!” he cried.
“Marry, old girl, and let everybody go hang!
We'll have to work it through a registrar.
I'm not quite sure how it's done, but I'll find out tomorrow.
I know you both have to have been resident in the place for a week or so--I'll fix all that.
Then we'll peg along up in the North; and we'll look out for whatever turns up, and we'll save, and in time we'll buy a practice just like Runnygate.”

Now he sat beside his Mary again; with a tremendous brush painted in more details of this entrancing picture.
Every doubt, every difficulty he threw to tomorrow--that glad sea in which youth casts its every trouble.
Was he sure he still had the refusal of this locum?--rather!
but he would make certain, tomorrow.
Was he sure they both could live upon the salary?-rather!
he would prove it to-morrow.
Could they really get married at a registrar's within a few days?-rather!
he'd fix that up to-morrow.
As to the money necessary for the marriage, necessary to tide over the days till the locum was taken up, why, he knew he could borrow that--from the Dean or from Professor Wyvern--to-morrow.
They were upon the very crest and flood of their delight when George noted the gathering dusk.
“I say, it's getting late!” he exclaimed.
“I must fix it up with Mrs. Pinking.
We've made no arrangement with her yet.”

Mary agreed: “Yes, dear.” She went on, pretty eyes shining, face aglow: “Oh, Georgie, think of the last time you brought me here!
I had nothing to expect but going out to work again; and you weren't qualified.
And now--now, although we've lost our little Runnygate home” (she could not stop a tiny sigh), “we're actually going to be married in a few days!
Georgie, I shan't sleep for hoping everything will turn out all right to-morrow.”

“It will,” George told her.
“It will.
Right as rain, old girl.”

Her great sigh of contentment advertised the drink she took of that sparkling future.
“Think of us being together always in a week or so--belonging!
Where will you stay till then?
Quite close.
Get a room quite close, Georgie?”

He stared at her.
“Why, you old goose, I'm not going.”

She echoed him: “Not going?”

“Of course not.
I'm going to get a bedroom here, and we'll have all our meals and everything in here.
We're not going to part again, Marykins.
Not much!”

That maddening handicap beneath which the sweetest women trudge shackled Mary, deluged this joy.
“Oh, Georgie!” she said; and again trembled, “Oh, Georgie!”

My impulsive George scented the damp.
“Well?” he asked.
“Well?
Whatever's--?”

“Oh, Georgie, you can't have a room here.
We can't have all our meals together here?”

He realised the trouble.
He broke out: “Why ever not?
Why ever--?”

“It wouldn't be _right_!
Georgie, it _wouldn't_ be right!”

Her impulsive George choked for words.
“Not right!
'Pon my soul, Mary, I simply don't understand you sometimes.
Not _right!
Why_ isn't it right?”

It was so difficult to tell.
“You don't understand, dear--”

“No, I'm damned if I do.
I'm sorry, Mary, but you are so funny, you women.
It's so exasperating after the--the devil of a day I've had.
Just when I've fixed up everything you turn round and”--he threw out an angry hand--“_Why_ isn't it right?”

This poor little Mary clung to her little principles.
“Don't you see?
we're engaged, dear; and being engaged, we oughtn't to live alone like this.
People would--”

He began to rave.
Certainly he had had a devil of a day; and this was a maddening buffet.
“People!” he cried.
“People!
People!
You're always thinking of people, you women!
Who's to know?
Who on earth's to know?”

The instinct of generations of training gave her the instinctive reply in the instinctive sweet little tone: “We should know, Georgie,” she said.
He flung up his arms: “Oh, good God!”

He swallowed his boiling irritation; laughed 'spite himself; went to his Mary.
“Mary, don't be such an utter, utter goose.
It's too, too ridiculous.”

She took his kiss; but she held her stupid little ground.
“It wouldn't be right, Georgie, _really_!”

Her George clanged the bell with a furious stroke that brought Mrs. Pinking in panic up the stairs.
Holding himself very straight, speaking in sentences short and hard, paying to his Mary no smallest attention, he made the arrangements.
Miss Humfray would take on her bedroom again.
By the week.
If Mrs. Pinking would be so kind as to allow them the same terms.
He thanked her.
That was settled, then.
He would look in in the morning.
He would say good night, Mrs. Pinking.
Mrs. Pinking gave him good night; busied herself with the tea-things.
Her presence enabled this brutal George to preserve his stony bearing; denied his pretty Mary opportunity to melt him with her tears.
Hard as flint, “Well, good night,” he said to her.
“I'll look in to-morrow morning.”

Upon a little sniff, “Good night,” she whispered; strangled an “Oh, George!
George!”

She followed him to the door.
He was down the stairs before she could command her voice for: “Where shall you go, George?”

With the reckless fury of one who sets forth to plunge into the river, he called back, “I?
I?
Oh, _anywhere--anywhere_.
Who cares where _I_ go?”

The hall door slammed.
*       *       *       *       *

Late into that night while a young woman sobbed her pretty eyes out upon a pillow in a back room of Meath Street, Battersea, a young man, who furiously had been pacing London, paced and repaced the street from end to end, gazing the windows of the house where she lay.
This young man muttered, gesticulated, groaned.
“Oh, damn!” was his song.
“Oh, Mary!
Oh, what a cursed brute I am!”

It was a bitter ending to a fearful day.
CHAPTER VII.
Mr. William Wyvern In Meath Street.
I.

George spent the night--such of it as remained after his bitter moanings outside his Mary's lodging--with the Mr. Franklyn who had accompanied him on that little “stroll up west” that had terminated in the cab adventure nearly three months before.
Of all his student friends who would give him a bed, Mr. Franklyn, because in a way associated with his Mary, had come most prominently into his mind.
That same association gave him a lead from which to pour out his reply to Mr. Franklyn's rallying, as they sat at supper, upon his gloom.
“You remember that day after the July exam, when we went up west together?” he began.
Mr. Franklyn remembered; in some gloom shook his head over the recollection.
“That waitress you left me with in the shop,” said Mr. Franklyn sadly, “she--”

“Oh, hang the waitress!
Listen, Franklyn, After I left you I turned up past the Marble Arch--” He proceeded with some account of the love between him and his Mary; skipped all details relating to the cat; came to the impending marriage; sought advice upon the prospects of a man marrying on a locum's earnings.
Mr. Franklyn listened with great sympathy.
“It's a rum thing you should be placed like that, George,” he said.
“I'm in just the same position.”

George exclaimed eagerly--in love, youth warms to a companion--“You are!”

“Well, not exactly,” Mr. Franklyn admitted.
“Very nearly.
I've got myself into a brute of a fix over a girl in the lager-beer garden at Earl's Court.
She--”

George bounced from the table, seized his hat.
“Who cares a damn about your lager-beer girls?” he shouted; slammed from the house.
It was then, while Mr. Franklyn laboriously indited a letter in reply to one received from the lager-beer girl's mother, that George paced Meath Street.
II.
At breakfast with Mr. Franklyn upon the following morning, he was in brighter trim--apologised for his over-night abruptness; apologised for the hasty meal he was making; announced that he was off to see his Mary.
As he lit his pipe, “I'll see you at hospital this morning some time, old chap,” he said.
“I shall dash in to fix up with the Dean about taking Bingham's place in that practice up in Yorkshire.”

Mr. Franklyn prodded for another slice of bacon.
“You can't, old chap,”  he remarked.
“That's filled.”

George shouted: “Filled!
What do you mean?”

“Why, taken--gone.
Simpson's got it--ten days ago.”

An icy chill smote my poor George.
After the dreadful loss of Runnygate everything had depended upon this appointment with its salary considerably above the average.
“Simpson!
Simmy got it!” he shouted.
“What the blazes does Simmy mean by taking it?
He knew I was after it.”

“My good lad, you never came near the place after you'd qualified.
If Simmy hadn't taken it someone else would.
Bingham was in a hurry.”

Blankly George stared before him.
At length, “I suppose there are several other jobs going?” he asked.
“None on the Dean's list,” said Mr. Franklyn.
“I was looking at it last night.”

Beneath this new distress George postponed the burning desire to clasp his Mary in his arms and beg forgiveness.
He hurried to hospital; made for the Dean's office.
Here disaster was confirmed.
Simpson had already taken the Yorkshire place; the Dean had no other posts on his lists.
“Only this Runnygate practice,” he said.
“I haven't seen you since you qualified.
Can you raise the price?”

George, rising and making for the door, could only shake his head.
There was something at his throat that forbade speech.
Runnygate and all that Runnygate meant--the dear little home, the tight little practice, the tremendous future--was a bitter picture now that it was so utterly lost; now that even this place in Yorkshire was also gone.
He shook his head.
“Great pity!” the Dean told him.
“I've kept it for you.
Lawrence, the man who's leaving it, is coming to see me at five this evening.
I shall have to help him find another purchaser.”

III.
The infernal something in George's throat gripped the harder as he took his way to his Mary.
He cursed himself for that hideous cat enterprise.
Had he never undertaken it, had he continued instead to entreat and implore, there was always the chance that his uncle would have relented and advanced the money sufficient for Runnygate.
As things were, he stood for ever damned in his uncle's eyes; further, by his folly he had encompassed his darling Mary's ejection from a home where she might comfortably have stayed till he was in position to marry her; further, he had just missed the assistantship which, to his present frame of mind, seemed the sole post in the world that would give him sufficient upon which to call his Mary wife.
The desperate thoughts augmented his fearful remorse at his treatment of her overnight.
Arrived at Meath Street, admitted by Mrs. Pinking, he bounded up the stairs, tremendous in his agony of love.
His Mary had her pretty nose pressed flat against the window.
With dim eyes she had been gazing for her George in the opposite direction from that he had approached.
He closed the door behind him.
“Mary!” he called, arms outstretched.
Into them she flung herself.
They locked in a hug so desperate as only love itself could have borne.
He poured out his remorse; beside him on the sofa she patted those brown hands.
He told his gloomy tale; she patted the more lovingly--assured him that, if the Yorkshire place had failed, something equally good would turn up.
But he was in desperate despondency.
“It's all that infernal cat, Mary,”  he groaned; she kissed that knotted forehead.
He asked her: “By the way, where's that other brute?--the beast we brought here with us?”

She peered low.
“I've just fed the poor thing.”

Attracted by her movement, that orange cat which had wrought the fearful disaster came forth from beneath the table.
“G-r-r-r!” George growled; stamped his foot.
The orange cat again took shelter.
“Ah, don't frighten it, dear,” Mary told him.
“It's done no harm.”

George rose.
He was too tremendously moved to contain himself while seated.
“Done no harm!” he cried.
He took a step to the window.
“Done no--” He stopped short.
“Oh, Lord!
I say, Mary!
Oh, Lord!
here's Bill!”

Mary fluttered to his side; saw Bill Wyvern disappear beneath the porch of the door.
A knock; shuffling in the passage; footsteps up the stairs.
“By Gad!
I'd forgotten all about old Bill,” George said.
Then Bill entered.
CHAPTER VIII.
Abishag The Shunamite In Meath Street.
I.
The most tremendous crises between man and man commonly begin with exchange of the customary banalities.
Charlotte Corday gave Marat _“Bonsoir, citoyen,”_ ere she drove her knife.
This was no cloak to hide her purpose.
We are so much creatures of convention that the man who sets out, hell in breast, to avenge himself upon another, cannot forbear to give him greeting before ever he comes upon the matter between them.
George, involuntarily straightening his back as he remembered how desperately he had hoodwinked this Bill, had upon a fool's errand packed him to that inn, as involuntarily passed him the customary words.
“Hullo, Bill!” he said.
“How on earth did you know I was here?”

He awaited the burst of reproach; the torrent of fury.
These did not come.
About Bill's mouth, as from George to Mary he glanced, there were the lines of amusement; no menace lay in his clear blue eyes.
“Went to look for you at the hospital,” Bill replied.
“Met that man Franklyn, and he told me you very probably were here.”

George pushed ahead with the banalities.
“Surprised to see Miss Humfray here?” he asked.
“You met her, of course, at my uncle's while--while”--this was dangerous ground, and he hurried over it--“while I was away,” he said quickly; blew his nose.
Bill told him: “Yes.
Not a bit surprised.” The creases of amusement became more evident.
He shook Mary's hand.
“Ah!” George said.
“Um!
Quite so.
Sit down, Bill.”

They took seats.
Constraint was upon these people; each sat upon the extreme edge of the chair selected.
After a pause, “You've been to Herons' Holt, then?” George remarked.
“Yesterday.
Yesterday night.”

“Ah!
Yesterday.
Thursday, so to speak.
Um!
Margaret quite well?”

“Quite.”

The deadly pause came on again.
Mary looked appealing to her George.
George, his right boot in a patch of sunlight, earnestly was watching it as, twisting it this way and that, the polish caught the rays.
It lay with herself to make a thrust through this fearful silence.
Upon a timid little squeak she shot out: “Mr.
Marrapit quite well?”

“Quite,” Bill told her.
“Quite.
A little bit--” He checked; again the silence fell.
Mary no longer could endure it.
Impulsively leaning forward, arms outstretched, hands clasped, “Oh, Mr. Wyvern!” she cried.
“You're _not_ angry with George, _are_ you?
He _couldn't_ help sending you to that inn, _could_ he?”

Constraint fled.
“Of course I'm not,” Bill declared.
“Not a bit.
I've come here to congratulate you both.
I--”

George sprang forward; grasped Bill's hand.
“Good old buck!” he cried.
“Good old Bill!
I'm awfully sorry, Bill.
You're a stunner, Bill.
Isn't he a stunner, Mary?”

“He _is_ a stunner,” Mary agreed.
The stunner, red beneath this praise, warmly returned George's grip.
When they released, “I say, George, you _are_ an ass, you know,” he said.
“Why on earth didn't you tell me what you were up to?”

“You weren't there, old man, when it began.
You were in London.
How on earth was I to know your paper would come plunging into the business?”  The memory of the pains that paper had caused him swept all else from George's mind.
Indignation seized him.
“It was a scandalous bit of work, Bill.
'Pon my soul it's simply shameful that a newspaper can go and interfere in a purely private matter like that.
Yes, it is, Mary.
Don't you interrupt.
Bill understands.
I don't blame you, Bill; you were doing your duty.
I blame the editor.
What did he want to push into it for?
I tell you that paper drove me up and down the country till I was pretty well dead.
It's all very well for you to grin, Bill.”

“I'm not grinning.”

“You are grinning.” George threw a bitter note into his declamations.
“Of course, you can afford to grin.
What was agony to me was hot stuff for you.
I expect you've made your reputation over this show.
Everything's turned out all right for you--”

Bill took that bitter note.
“Rather!” he broke in.
“Rather!
I pulled it off, didn't I?
I found the rotten cat, didn't I?
I wasn't made a fool of for two days in a country inn, was I?
I've not got the sack all through you, have I?”

George instantly forgot his personal sorrows.
“Oh, I say, Bill, you haven't, have you?”

Bill, not expecting the interruption, confessed a little lamely: “No, I haven't.
I _haven't_--as it turns out.
But I might have--if it wasn't for--” He paused a moment; sadly said, “Anyway, just as I thought I'd got her, I've lost Margaret again.”

In those fierce days when her Bill was the Daily Special Commissioner, Margaret had confided in Mary the promise Mr. Marrapit had made should Bill find the cat.
Now Mary was filled with sympathy.
“Oh, Mr. Wyvern!”  she cried, “I _am_ sorry!
What has happened?
How do you know?
Do tell us everything of when you went to Herons' Holt last night.”

Bill took a chair.
He said gloomily: “There's not much to tell.
I felt I couldn't wait at that infernal inn any longer, so I left the detective in charge, went to the inn where we'd found George, didn't see him, and came back to Herons' Holt.
I saw old Marrapit for about two minutes in the hall.
He foamed at me all about George, foamed out that I was one of George's friends, and foamed me out of the door before I could get in a word.
Said I never was to come near the place again.
I asked him about Margaret, and he had a kind of fit--a kind of fit.”

George said softly: “I know what you mean, old man.”

“A kind of fit,” Bill gloomily repeated.
Then he struck one clenched fist into the palm of the other hand.
“And hang it!” he cried, “I've won her!
According to the bargain old Marrapit made with me, I've won her.
If it had not been for me you wouldn't have taken the cat to that hut in the wood, and if you hadn't taken it there Marrapit wouldn't have it _now_.
It's through me he got it, isn't it?”

“Bill,” George told him, “it is.
You rotted my show all right.
No mistake about that.”

It was a fearful situation as between these two young men.
In silence, in gloom, they gazed each upon the ground.
Bill took a glance at George's face; turned hurriedly from the despair there stamped; set his eyes upon my pretty Mary.
He gave a sigh.
“But, George, old man, you've come out of it the better,” he said.
“You've lost the money you wanted, but you've got your--you've got Miss Humfray.
I've lost my--I've lost Margaret.”

In great melancholy George rose; crossed to his Mary; sat upon the arm of her chair; caressed her pretty shoulders.
“You don't know what you're talking about, Bill.
Bill, we're in a most fearful hole.
We haven't got a sou, and I've got no work.
You're doing well.
You're making money.
You're bound to get Margaret in time.
As for us--”

Bill was deeply stirred.
“I say, I am sorry,” he told them.
He sat up very straight.
“Look here, don't get down on your luck.
Come out and have lunch with me and tell me just how you're fixed.
If a small loan will do you any good I'm certain my guv'nor will stand it.
He likes you awfully, George.
Come on.
I shan't see you again otherwise for some time.
I'm off on another Special Commissioner job for the _Daily_, you know.”

George gave a slight shudder.
“Oh?
Thank goodness, I'm not the object of it this time.
What is it?”

“What is it?
Why, you've seen the _Daily_ this morning, haven't you?”

“I'll never open the infernal thing again.”

Bill did not heed the aspersion.
“It's really rather funny, you know,”  he went on.
“Look here.” He tugged at his pocket; produced a _Daily_.
A pencil dislodged by the paper fell to the ground; rolled beneath the table.
Bill stooped after it.
The cat that lay there, disturbed, walked forth--arching its proud orange back.
II.
With eyes that goggled tremendously Bill stared at it; with a finger that shook he pointed at it; turned his head to George.
“George,” he asked, “whose cat is that?”

George looked at Mary; gave a bitter little laugh.
“I suppose it's ours,” he replied.
“Eh, Mary?”

A sad little smile his Mary gave, “I suppose it is,” she agreed.
From one to the other Bill looked, suspicion in those goggling eyes.
“You _suppose_ it is?” he emphasised.
Again he swiftly looked from George to Mary; again stared at the splendid orange form.
“George,” he said sharply--“George, what is that cat's name?”

George regarded him with a whimsical smile.
“Bill, you old duffer, you don't think it's the Rose, do you?”

Yet more sharply than before Bill spoke.
“George, is that cat's name Abishag?”

“_Abishag?_ What an awful--”

Bill turned from him with an impatient gesture.
He called to the cat, “Abishag!
Abishag!”

With upreared tail the fine creature trotted to him.
“Good Lord!” George broke out.
“Is that _your_ cat, Bill?”

Bill turned upon him.
“_My_ cat!
You know thundering well it's not my cat.”

“But it knows you, Mr. Wyvern,” Mary told him wonderingly.
There was sorrow, a look of pity in this young man's eyes as reproachfully he regarded my Mary.
He swung round upon George.
“George, you've made a fool of me once--”

“I don't know what on earth's the matter with you,” George told him.
With knitted brows Bill for a moment searched his face.
“I ask you point-blank,” he said slowly.
“Did you steal this cat, George?”

George struck the stern young man upon the back.
“Is _that_ what you're driving at, you old ass?
Stole it!
D'you suppose I'll ever _touch_ a cat again?
That's the infernal cat Mrs. Major left in that hut when she hooked off the Rose.
Marrapit told you, didn't he?”

Into a chair Bill collapsed--legs thrust straight before him, head against the cushioned back.
He gasped.
“George, this is a licker, a fair licker.” Enormously this staggered man swelled as he inhaled a tremendous breath; upon a vast sigh he let it go.
“That cat--” he said.
He got to his legs and paced the room; astonished, Mary and George regarded him.
“That cat--I'll bet my life that's the cat!”

III.
My Mary was trembling before this fearful agitation.
For support she took her George's hand.
“Oh, Mr. Wyvern!” she cried, “whatever is it?
Have we got into another awful trouble through those dreadful, _dreadful_ cats?”

“Look at the _Daily_,” Bill said.
“Look at the _Daily_.
George, give me a cigarette.
I must smoke.
This is an absolute licker.”

My frightened Mary jumped for the paper where it had fallen; spread it upon the table; opened it.
“Oh, George!” she cried.
“Oh, George!”; pressed a pretty finger upon these flaming words:

ANOTHER CAT OUTRAGE.
AMAZING STORY.
MR. VIVIAN HOWARD'S FAMOUS PET

STOLEN WHILE BACK TURNED.
“DAILY” OFFER.
500 POUNDS FOR OUR READERS.
My Mary's golden head, my George's head of brown, pressed and nudged as with bulging eyes they read the crisp, telling paragraphs that followed in a column of leaded type.
Readers of the _Daily_, it appeared, would be astonished to learn that the abduction of Mr. Marrapit's famous cat, the Rose of Sharon--concerning the recovery of which all hope had now been abandoned--had been followed by a similar outrage of a nature even more sensational, more daring.
Mr. Vivian Howard, the famous author and dramatist, whose new novel, “Amy Martin,” _Daily_ readers need not be reminded, was to start in the _Daily_ as a feuilleton on Monday week, had been robbed of his famous cat “Abishag the Shunamite.”

The whole reading public were well aware of Mr. Howard's devotion to this valuable pet.
Scarcely a portrait of Mr. Howard was extant that did not show Abishag the Shunamite by his side.
It was a melancholy coincidence that in the interview granted to the _Daily_ by Mr. Howard last Saturday he had told that Abishag had sat upon his table while every single word of the manuscript of “Amy Martin” was penned.
He had admitted that she was his mascot.
Without her presence he could not compose a line.
_Daily_ readers would imagine, then, Mr. Howard's prostration at his appalling loss.
The occurrence had taken place on Monday night.
As _Daily_ readers were well aware, Mr. Howard had for some weeks been staying at the house of his widowed mother in Sussex Gardens.
Nightly at nine it had been his custom to stroll round the gardens before settling down for three hours' work upon “Amy Martin.” During his stroll Abishag would slip into the gardens, meeting her master upon his completion of the circuit.
According to this practice, Mr. Howard, on Monday night, had followed his usual custom.
He believed he might possibly have walked a little slower than usual as he was pondering deeply over his final revise of the proof of “Amy Martin.” Otherwise his programme was identical with its usual performance.
But upon his return the cat was not to be found.
Theories, suggestions, investigations that had already been made, followed.
The _Daily_ abundantly proved that the cat had not strayed but had been deliberately stolen by someone well acquainted with Mr. Howard's nightly promenade; pointed out that this second outrage showed that no one possessing a valuable cat was safe from the machinations of a desperate gang; asked, Where are the police?
and concluded with the pica sub-head:

“DAILY” OFFER.
The _Daily,_ it appeared, on behalf of the whole reading public of Great Britain, the Colonies, America, and the many Continental countries into whose tongues Mr. Howard's novels had been translated, offered 500 pounds to the person who would return, or secure the return of, Abishag the Shunamite, and thus restore peace to the heart of England's premier novelist, whose new story, “Amy Martin,” would start in the _Daily_ on Monday week.
A sketch-map of Sussex Gardens, entitled “Scene of the Outrage,” showed, by means of dotted lines, (A) Route taken by Mr. Vivian Howard; (B) Route into Gardens taken by cat; (C) Supposed route taken by thief.
Mr. Henry T. Bitt had achieved a mammoth splash.
IV.
The golden head and the head of brown lifted simultaneously from the paper; stared towards Bill, pacing, smoking.
Tremendous possibilities flickered in George's mind; made his voice husky.
“Bill,” he asked, “do you believe that cat is this Abishag--Vivian Howard's Abishag?”

Bill nodded absently.
This man's thoughts were afar--revolving this situation he had named “licker.” “Look at the description,” he said.
“Look at the cat.
It knows its name, doesn't it?
I've seen a life-size painting of Abishag.
It's a cert.”

George dropped upon the sofa; his thoughts, too, rushed afar.
Tremendous possibilities danced a wild jig in his Mary's pretty head; trembled her voice.
“Oh, Mr. Wyvern!” she appealed, “what does it mean?
What does it mean--for us?”

“It's a licker,” Bill told her.
“It's a fair licker.”

Mary dropped by her George's side; to his her thoughts rushed.
Presently Bill threw away his cigarette; faced George.
He said slowly: “Mrs.
Major must have stolen this cat, George.
But how did she get it?
She's been at Herons' Holt the last week.”

Mary gave a little jump.
“Oh, Mr. Wyvern, she went up to town on Monday till Tuesday.”

Bill struck a hand upon the table.
“That fixes it.
By gum, that fixes it!
I tell you what it is, George.
I tell you what it is.
I believe--yes, I believe she'd seen this cat before, knew it was like the Rose, and meant to have palmed it off on old Marrapit herself so as to get him to take her back.
Margaret told me all about her getting the sack.
I bet my life that's it.
By gum, _what_ a splash for the _Daily!_”  And upon this fine thought the young man stood with sparkling eyes.
George timidly touched the castles he had been building: “Bill, where do I--where do Mary and I come in?”

Bill clapped his hands together.
“Why, my good old buck, don't you see?-don't you realise?-you get this L500.
Just do you, eh?”

_“Runnygate!”_ George burst out with a violent jerk; clasped his Mary in an immense hug.
_“Runnygate!”_ came thickly from his Mary, face squashed against this splendid fellow.
When they unlocked my blushing Mary suddenly paled: “Oh, but you, Mr. Wyvern--you found it really.”

“Not much,” Bill declared.
“Not likely.
You found it.
I couldn't have the reward, anyway.
I'm one of the staff.” He repeated the fine words: “One of the _staff_.”

She made to thank him.
“Besides,” he interrupted her, “I'll make a lot out of it.
I'm doing awfully well.
The chief was awfully pleased with the way I ran that Rose of Sharon job.
Of course this is twice as big a splash, because Vivian Howard's mixed up in it.
Look what a boost it is for our new serial--look what a tremendous ad.
it is for the paper!
Directly Howard came to us the editor dropped the Rose like a hot coal; plumped for this and put me in charge.
Now I've pulled it off, just think how bucked up he'll be!
It's a licker, George--a licker all round.”

“Bill,” George said, “I can't speak about it.
My head's whirling.
I believe it's a dream.”

Indeed this George had rushed through so much in the past hours, was now suddenly come upon so much, that the excitement, as he attempted realisation, was of stunning effect.
He sat white, head in hands.
“Jolly soon show you!” Bill cried.
“Come to the office straight away.
Bring the cat.
I was to meet the chief and Vivian Howard there at twelve.”

George sprang to his feet; ruddy again of face.
“Come on!” he cried.
“Bill, if it isn't his Abishag, if there's any hitch, I'll--I'll--oh, Mary, don't build too highly on this, old girl!”

“Shall I come, Georgie?”

George hesitated.
“Better not.
Better not, if you don't mind.
I couldn't bear to see your face if Vivian Howard says it isn't the cat.”

White-faced, between tears and smiles, his Mary waved from the window as George, cat under arm, turned the corner with Bill.
CHAPTER IX

Excursions In A Newspaper Office.
I.
Silent, white and stern of face, occupied with immense thoughts, the young men sat as the cab they had found outside Battersea Park station sped them towards Fleet Street.
They were upon the Embankment, rattling beneath Hungerford Bridge, when from the tangle of his plans Bill at last drew a thread; weaved it to words.
“George, we mustn't tell the chief anything about your being mixed up with the other cat outrage--the Rose.
It might be awkward.”

George shifted the hand that firmly held Abishag on the seat between them; squeezed that fine creature's head to him with his arm; with his handkerchief wiped his sweating palms.
“It's _going_ to be awkward,” he said--“damned awkward!
I see that.
Oh, Bill!”

He groaned.
This young man was in desperate agitation.
“Buck up,” Bill told him.
“This is a cert.
Safe as houses.”

“All very well for you, Bill.
I seem to have been living one gigantic lie all the past week.”

“Well, you have, you know,” Bill granted.
“By gum, you have!
But you aren't now.
You didn't steal _this_ cat.
You found it just as anyone else might have found it.
All I tell you is: Don't say anything about the Rose.
Don't open your mouth, in fact.
Leave the gassing to me.”

It was upon this repeated injunction that my poor George tottered up the stairs of the _Daily_ office, cat in arm, in Bill's wake.
II.
Bill rapped upon Mr. Bitt's door; poked in his head at the answering call; motioned my trembling George to wait; stepped over the threshold.
Mr. Bitt sat behind a broad table; before him, deep in an armchair, smoking a cigarette, lay Mr. Vivian Howard.
“Ah!
Wyvern,” spoke Mr. Bitt.
“Mr.
Howard, this is Mr. Wyvern, one of my brightest young men.
From to-day he takes in hand this business.”

Mr. Vivian Howard did not rise; stretched a white hand to Bill.
This man had an appreciation of the position he had won.
This man stood for English literature.
Within a wide estimate of public opinion, and within that immense estimate of him that was his own, this man stood for literature.
In a manner worthy of his proud standing this man comported himself.
The talents that were his belonged to the nation, and very freely he gave them to the people.
This man did not deny himself to the crowd as another might have denied himself.
Of him it never could be said that he missed opportunity to let the public feed upon him.
This man made such opportunities.
Where excitement was, there this man, pausing between his novels, would step in.
If a murder-trial had the public attention this man would write upon that trial; if interest were fixed upon a trade dispute this man would by some means draw that interest upon himself.
Nothing was too small for this man.
Walking the public places he did not shrink from recognition; he gladly permitted it.
Not once but many times, coming upon a stranger reading one of his novels, he had announced himself; autographed the copy.
This man's character was wholly in keeping with his gifts.
Yet beautifully he could preserve the dignity that was his right.
Preserving it now, he gave his hand to Bill but did not move his position.
“It is a great pleasure to me to meet you, sir,” Bill told him.
“You have only lately joined the ranks of journalism, Mr. Bitt tells me,” Mr. Vivian Howard graciously replied.
“It is the stepping-stone to literature.
Never forget that.
Never lose sight of that.
I shall watch your career with the greatest interest.”

Mr. Bitt broke in a trifle impatiently: “Well, well, we must keep to business just now.
Mr. Howard will kindly give us a daily interview, Wyvern, until the feuilleton starts, or until the cat is found.
You'd better--”

Bill took a pace back; faced them both.
“No need,” he cried in bursting words.
“The cat is found!”

The cigarette dropped from Mr. Vivian Howard's lip to his waistcoat.
He brushed at it violently; burnt his fingers; brushed again; swore with a ferocity that would have astonished his admirers; sprang to his feet amid a little shower of sparks and cloud of ash.
“Found!” he exclaimed; jabbed a burnt finger in his mouth and thickly repeated, “Found!”

Mr. Bitt simultaneously rose.
“Found?” cried Mr. Bitt.
“What the--”

“I have the finder here,” Bill told them; stepped to the door.
On legs that shook my agitated George advanced.
Mr. Vivian Howard drew forth his suffering finger with a loud pop; made three hasty strides to George; took the cat.
“Abishag!” he cried in ecstasy, “Abishag!”

In very gloomy tones Mr. Bitt announced that he was bust.
“Well, I'm bust!” he said.
“I'm bust.
It _is_ your cat, eh?”

Mr. Vivian Howard nodded the head he was bending over his Abishag.
Bill signalled to George a swift wink.
George drew a handkerchief; wiped from his face the beaded agony.
Mr. Bitt dropped heavily into his seat.
“Of course I'm very glad, Mr. Howard,” he announced stonily.
“_Very_ glad.
At the same time--at the same _time_--” He turned upon George with a note that was almost savage.
“You, sir!” he cried.
George started painfully.
“How the--How did you come to find this cat?”

George forced his pocket handkerchief into his trousers pocket; rammed it down; cleared his throat; ran a finger round the inside of his collar; cleared again; said nothing.
Bill hurried to the rescue.
“Like this, sir.
Let me tell you.
This gentleman was at Paltley Hill, a place on the South-Western.
He used to live there.
He found the cat in a deserted kind of hut, took charge of it.
I happened to meet him and brought him along.
By Jove, sir, only published this morning and found within a few hours!
It's pretty good, isn't it?”

Mr. Bitt spoke with great disgust.
“Pretty _good!_” he cried bitterly.
“Pretty _good!_” He had no fit words in which to express his feeling.
“Kindly step in there a moment,” he addressed George.
George trembled into the adjoining room indicated; closed the door.
Mr. Bitt turned to Mr. Vivian Howard.
“It will always be a great pleasure to me,” he told the great novelist, “to think that the _Daily_ was the means of restoring your cat.”

“I never shall forget it,” Mr. Vivian Howard assured him.
The famous author placed himself upon the couch, caressed Abishag the Shunamite upon his lap.
“Never shall forget it.
It was more than good of you, Mr. Bitt, to take up the matter and offer so handsome a reward.
It was public-spirited.”

Mr. Bitt's deprecatory little laugh had a rueful note.
He nerved himself to step upon the delicate ground that lay between him and his purpose.
This man had not known Mr. Vivian Howard sufficiently long to put to him directly that the reward was offered, and gladly agreed to by Mr. Howard, for purposes of respective self-advertisement agreeable at once to the paper and to the man who stood for English literature.
He nerved himself:

“When you say public-spirited, Mr. Howard, you use the right term.
I do not attempt to deny that I fully appreciated that this reward for your cat, and the interview you agreed to give us, would greatly benefit our paper.
Why should I deny it?
We editors must be business men first, nowadays; journalists afterwards.
But I do ask you to believe me, Mr. Howard, that in offering this reward, in arousing this interest, I had in view also a matter that has been my aim since I was at College.”

Mr. Bitt's college was Rosa Glen College, 156 Farmer Road, Peckham; but he preferred the briefer designation.
“The aim,” he continued, gathering courage as he detected in Mr. Vivian Howard's face a look which seemed to show that the famous author was advancing upon the delicate ground to meet him, “the aim of attracting the people to good literature.”

Mr. Vivian Howard, as standing for that literature, took the implied compliment with a bow.
“I congratulate you, Mr. Bitt.”

“Now, the _Daily_ is young,” Mr. Bitt earnestly continued.
“The _Daily_ has yet to make its way.
If your 'Amy Martin' starts in normal circumstances a week hence, it will mean that this contribution to our highest literature will fall only to a comparatively small circle of people.
But if--but if, as I had hoped, we had morning by morning attracted more and more readers by the great interest taken in your loss, 'Amy Martin' would then have introduced our best fiction to a public twice or thrice as large as our present circulation represents.”

“You mean--?” the great author inquired.
“I mean,” Mr. Bitt told him, “that for this reason I cannot but regret that the excitement aroused should disappear with our issue of to-morrow.
I mean, Mr. Howard, that for the reason I have named I do think it is almost our _duty_--our _duty_, for the reason I have named--to conceal the cat's recovery for--er--for a day or so.”

Mr. Bitt blew his nose violently to conceal his agitation.
This man was now in the precise centre of the delicate ground; was in considerable fear that it might open and swallow him.
But Mr. Vivian Howard's reply made that ground of rock-like solidity.
“As you put the matter, Mr. Bitt, I must say I agree.
It would be false modesty on my part to pretend I do not recognise the worth of 'Amy Martin,' and the desirability of introducing it as widely as possible.
Certainly that could best have been accomplished by Abishag not having been recovered so soon.
But as it is--I do not see what can be done.
You do not, of course, suggest deliberate deception of the public?”

“Certainly _not!_” cried Mr. Bitt with virtuous warmth.
Since this was precisely what he did suggest and most earnestly desired, he repeated his denial: “Certainly _not_!
At the same time--”

“One moment,” Mr. Vivian Howard interrupted.
“This cat was obviously stolen by someone and placed in the hut where it was found.
Very well.
We prosecute.
We prosecute, and I could give you every morning my views on the guilt or otherwise--”

Mr. Bitt shook his head.
“I had thought of that.
It won't do.
It won't do, Mr. Howard.
For one thing, a rigorous prosecution and sentence might create bad feeling against the paper.
You have no idea how curious the public is in that way.
For another, you, as the injured party, ought not to comment; and certainly I could not publish your views.
The matter would be _sub judice_ directly arrest was made; and I once got into very serious trouble over a _sub judice_ matter--very serious trouble indeed.
I shall not touch the law, Mr. Howard.
It is unwise.
At the same time, I think the thief should be made to suffer--be given a thorough fright.
Now, if we inform the public that practically our Special Commissioner has his hand on the cat--which will be perfectly true--and is almost certain as to the identity of the thief--if we keep this up for the few days necessary for the publication of those magnificent articles of yours on 'What my Loss means to Me,' we shall be accomplishing three excellent objects.
We shall be terrifying an evil-doer--we may take it for granted he reads the _Daily_; we shall be giving the public those articles which most certainly ought not to be lost to literature; and we shall be widening the sphere of influence of 'Amy Martin.
'”

Mr. Vivian Howard did not hesitate.
“It is impossible to override your arguments, Mr. Bitt.
I think we shall be doing _right_.”

Mr. Bitt concealed his immense joy.
“I am convinced of it, Mr. Howard,”  he said.
“_Convinced_.
The modern editor and the man of letters of your standing have enormous responsibilities.”

Impelled by the virtuous public duty they were performing, the two men silently grasped hands.
CHAPTER X.
A Perfectly Splendid Chapter.
Mr. Bitt turned to Bill; indicated the door behind which my poor George was wrestling in prayer.
“The only difficulty is with that chap in there.
He knows the cat is found!
How can we--”

“If you will leave that to me, sir,” Bill told him, “I think I can arrange it without difficulty.”

“Or danger?” added Mr. Vivian Howard, who, standing for English literature, would not lightly imperil his integrity.
“Or the least danger,” Bill affirmed.
“He's a kind of friend of mine--did I mention that, sir?
I'll fix it up in a minute.”

He stepped briskly to George; closed the door behind him.
George said faintly: “Say it quick, Bill.
Quick.”

“You've got it, old man.
Got it.”

George rose to his feet; stretched his arms aloft; wildly waved them.
The tremendous shout for which he opened his mouth was stayed upon his lips by Bill's warning finger.
He hurled himself on a couch; rolled in ecstasy.
Rapidly Bill outlined the proposals.
Then he struck a heavy hand upon George's shoulder.
“And I've got it too!” he cried in an exultant whisper.
“I've got it too!
I've got Margaret!”

“Margaret!
However--?”

“Like this.
Plain as a fiddle-stick.
To-morrow, when we get out this story about practically having our hand on the thief, I shall go bang down to Marrapit with the paper and tell him I know it was Mrs. Major who took the cat.
You can imagine the state that'll put 'em both in.
Then--then, my boy, I shall say 'Let Margy and me carry on and fix it up forthwith, and I'll promise Mrs. Major shall never hear a word more about the matter.'
He'll agree like a shot.
The chief's not going to prosecute, you see; so neither Mrs. Major nor you ever will hear a word more.
George, we've done it!
Done it!
You've got your Mary and I've got my Margy!”

With swelling bosoms, staring eyes, upon this tremendous happening the two young men clasped hands; stood heavily breathing.
These men were glimpsing heaven.
When they unlocked, George said: “There's one thing, Bill.
Go in and tell that precious pair they can hold over the discovery till they please and that I shall never breathe a word.
But tell 'em this: I don't agree unless I have my cheque right away.”

Bill advised no stipulations.
George stood firm: “I don't care a snap, Bill.
I will have it now.
I've been badgered about quite enough.
I want to feel safe.
I'll either lose it all or have it all.
No more uncertainty.
Anything might happen during the week, for all I know.”

Bill took the message.
Upon immediate payment Mr. Bitt at first stuck.
“He might turn back on us, or start blackmailing us.
He may have stolen the cat himself for all we know.”

“All the more likely, in that case, to keep his mouth shut,” commented Mr. Vivian Howard.
Despite he stood for literature, this man had strong business instincts.
Bill urged compliance.
He knew this finder of the cat; would speak for him as for himself.
Mr. Bitt put a quill into his inkstand; took George's name; wrote a slip; handed it to Bill.
“Take that to the cashier, Wyvern.
He'll give you the cheque.
Clear your friend out.
Eh?
No--no need for me to see him again.
Of course you must get his story of how he found the cat, to use when the 'What my Loss means to Me' articles run out.
Then come back and we'll fix up to-morrow's account.”

A cabman drove to St. Peter's Hospital a seemingly insane young man, who bounded into the cab with a piece of paper in his hand; who sang and rattled his heels upon the foot-board, shouted to passers-by; who paid with two half-crowns; who bounded, paper still fluttering in hand, up the steps of the Dean's entrance with a wild and tremendous whoop.
George had scarcely explained to the Dean an incoherent story of L500 won through a newspaper competition, when the Mr. Lawrence, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., whose practice was at Runnygate, arrived.
Informally the purchase was at once arranged; a further meeting settled.
George bolted to another cab; drove to Meath Street by way of the florist near Victoria Station; took aboard an immense basket of flowers.
At the house he gathered the flowers beneath his arm; on the way upstairs shifted them to his hands; flung wide the door.
His Mary, white, a tooth on a trembling lip, her pretty hands clasped, was before him.
In a great whirling shower he flung the blossoms about her; then took her in his arms.
“Runnygate, Mary!
Darling old girl, Runnygate!”

He kissed his Mary.
Last Shots from the Bridge.
If you had patience for another peep from the bridge that I can build, you might catch a glimpse or so.
Bending over you might see Bill seated at the editor's table of the editor's room of a monstrously successful monthly magazine of most monstrous fiction that Mr. Bitt's directors have started; Margaret, that sentimental young woman, by her husband's side is correcting the proofs of a poem signed “Margaret Wyvern.” It is of the most exquisite melancholy.
Bending over you might see George upon one of the summer evenings when, his duties through, he is taking his Mary for a drive in the country behind that rising seaside resort Runnygate.
They are plunging along in a tremendous dogcart drawn by an immense horse.
George is fully occupied with his steed; Mary, peeping at constant intervals through the veil that hides the clear blue eyes and the ridiculous little turned-up nose of her baby, at every corner says: “Oh, George!
Georgie, do be careful!
We were on _one_ wheel then, I _know_ we were!” But along the level the wind riots at her pretty curls as she sits up very straight and very proud, smiling at this splendid fellow beside her.
Bending over you might see the garden of Herons' Holt, Mr. Fletcher leading from the house the fat white pony and tubby wide car which Mrs. Marrapit, formerly Mrs. Major, has prevailed upon her husband to buy.
The pony has all the docile qualities of a blind sheep, but Mr. Fletcher is in great terror of it.
When, while being groomed, it suddenly lifts its head, Mr. Fletcher drops his curry-comb and retires from the stall at great speed.
“It's 'ard,” says Mr. Fletcher--“damn 'ard.
I'm a gardener, I am; not a 'orse-breaker.”

